'\" te
.\" @(#)bdiff.1	1.8 18/03/15 Copyright (c) 2013-2018 J. Schilling
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may use this file only in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH bdiff 1 "2022/08/10" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bdiff \- big diff
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.B bdiff \c
.I filename1 filename2 \c
.RI [ n "] "\c
.RB [ \-s ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.LP
.B bdiff
is used in a manner analogous to
.B diff
to find which lines in
.I filename1
and
.I filename2
must be changed to bring the files into agreement.
Its purpose is to allow processing of files too large for
.BR diff .
If
.I filename1 (filename2)
is
.BR \(mi ,
the standard input is read.
.sp

.LP
.B bdiff
ignores lines common to the beginning of both files,
splits the remainder of each file into
.IR n -line
segments, and invokes
.B diff
on corresponding segments.
If both optional arguments are specified, they must appear in the order
indicated above.
.sp

.LP
The output of
.B bdiff
is exactly that of
.BR diff ,
with line numbers adjusted to account for the segmenting of the
files (that is, to make it look as if the files had
been processed whole). Note:  Because of the segmenting of the files,
.B bdiff
does not necessarily find a smallest sufficient set of file differences.
.sp

.SH OPTIONS

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.I n
The number of line segments. The value of
.I n
is 3500 by
default.
If the optional third argument is given and it is numeric,
it is used as the value for
.IR n .
This is useful in those cases in which 3500-line segments are too large for
.BR diff ,
causing it to fail.

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.B \-s
Specifies that no diagnostics are to be printed by
.B bdiff
(silent option). Note:  However, this does not suppress possible
diagnostic messages from
.BR diff ,
which
.B bdiff
calls.

.SH USAGE

.LP
See 
.BR largefile (5)
for the description of the behavior of
.B bdiff
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.sp

.SH FILES

.LP
.BI /tmp/bd ?????
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES

.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.LP

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWesu
_
CSIenabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO

.LP

.BR diff (1),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR largefile (5)
.sp

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.LP
Use
.B help
for explanations.
.sp

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This version of
.BR bdiff (1)
supports lines of arbitrary length and is able to deal with binary content
(null bytes) in the files. It thus calls
.BR diff (1)
with the
.B \-a
option.
The well known main caller of
.BR bdiff (1),
which is
.BR sccs-delta (1),
checks for binary content before calling
.BR bdiff (1).
Previous versions of
.BR bdiff (1)
did not check for binary content and silently discarded null bytes.

.SH BUGS
.PP
None currently known.
.PP
Mail bugs and suggestions to
.B schilytools@mlists.in-berlin.de
or open a ticket at
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/issues .
.PP
The mailing list archive may be found at:
.PP
.nf
.BR https://mlists.in-berlin.de/mailman/listinfo/schilytools-mlists.in-berlin.de .
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
The
.BR bdiff (1)
program was initially written at Bell Labs in the 1970s as part of
.BR SCCS .
The SVr4 release was written by various authors at AT&T in 1989.
The
.BR bdiff (1)
programm was later maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun
Microsystems. Since 2006, it has been maintained by J\*org Schilling
and is now maintained by the schilytools authors.

.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
The source code for
.B sccs
is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Codeberg at
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools .
.LP
The download directory is
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/releases .
