'\" t
.\" @(#)changeset.4	1.3 13/06/15 Copyright 2011-2013 J. Schilling 
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.\" Manual page for sccslog
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH changeset 4 "2013/06/15" "J\*org Schilling" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
changeset \- format of an SCCS changeset file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
An SCCS
.B changeset
file is an
.B ASCII
file consisting of a list of entries
that describe the state of a project set under control of SCCSv6 or later.
.LP
The
.B changeset
file itself is under control of SCCS.
SCCS works directly on the 
.BR s. changeset
file, there is no need to check out the related file content.

.SS Conventions
.LP
The following terms are used in this documentation:
.br
.ne 5
.TP 20
.B project set
A set of one or more files under control of SCCS that form a project.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B project set home
A directory that is above all files from the related
.BR "project set" .
This directory holds a directory
.B .sccs
with 
.B project set
related meta data such as the
.B changeset
file.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B commit set
A single set of changes into the repository for a project set.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B committer
The person who formed a commit set.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B email address
The email address used to identify a committer.
.SS File Format
.LP
Each entry in the
.B changeset
file describes the new state of a single file after it was modified, renamed,
removed or restored in a related
.BR "commit set" .
.LP
Each entry in the
.B changeset
file ends in a newline character. If the file name from the related file
contains a newline character, additional newlines may be in the related entry.
.LP
Each entry in the
.B changeset
file consists of six fields that are separated by a
.B vertical line
character (ASCII 0x7C).
The
.B vertical line
character may not be part of the email address, it however may appear
in the path name.
.br
.ne 5
.LP
The following fields appear in the order of the following list:
.RS
.br
.ne 5
.TP 15
.B urand
A unified pseudo random number that is used to help to identify single
files across renames during the lifetime of the sccs history.
The unified random number is unique to any file from the
.BR "project set" .
See
.BR sccsfile (4)
for a detailed description of the unified pseudo random number.
.sp
The minimal length for the pseudo random number is
thirteen hexadecimal characters.
This allows to have a unique length for this number
until 2146 Sep 27 13:30:51 GMT.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B date-time
A date-time specification in the form
.B yyyymmDDHHMMSS
as specified for the
.B \-c
option
of the
.B get
command.
Only four or more digits are permitted to specify the year.
.sp
All
.B date-time
values in the 
.B changeset
file that belong to a single
.B commit set
are equal. Different changesets use different
.B date-time
values.
.sp
In order to keep the
.B date-time
values monotonic, the time used for
.B date-time
is the time the changeset was added to the current repository.
In case a changeset was imported from another repository, the
.B date-time
value may differ from the time the changeset was entered to the 
original repository.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B sid-sum
The SID specific checksum for the related file.
See
.BR sccsfile (4)
for a detailed description of the SID specific checksums for a file.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B email
The configured e-mail address for the
.BR committer .
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B path length
A decimal number representing the number bytes in the path name not
including the final newline character.
.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B path name
The path name of the related file after the commit has been applied.
The path name holds a relative path as seen from the
.B project set home
directory.
.RE
.LP
A typical entry in the
.B changeset
file may look like:
.sp
  0e31666e43286|20111205172040|45206|joerg@some.org|15|some/dir/file.c
.sp
.LP

.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-comb (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs-unget (1),
.BR sccs-val (1),
.BR sccscvt (1),
.BR sccslog (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR sccsfile (4).

.SH NOTES
.SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
