.\" @(#)sccs-create.1	1.2 20/07/05 Copyr 2020 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for sccs-create
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\" A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-create 1 "2022/10/06" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sccs-create, sccs-enter \- create (initialize) history files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
sccs create
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ file1 " .. " filen ]
.br
.B
sccs enter
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ file1 " .. " filen ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.sp .6
The
.B create
subcommand
creates an
.SM SCCS
file,
taking the initial contents from the file of the same name.
Any flags to
.B admin
are accepted.
If the creation is successful,
the files are renamed with a comma on the front.
These should be removed when you are convinced that
the
.SM SCCS
files have been created successfully.
.LP
.B sccs create
performs the following steps:
.RS +5
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Creates the history file called
.B s.program.c
in the
.B SCCS
subdirectory.
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Renames the original source file to
.B ,program.c
in the current directory.
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Performs an
.RB ` "sccs get" '
on
.B program.c
to retrieve a read-only copy of the initial version.
.RE
.LP
The
.B enter
subcommand is similar to the
.B sccs create
command, but it omits the final
.RB ` "sccs get" '.
This can be used if an
.RB ` "sccs edit" '
is to be performed immediately after the history file is initialized.

. \" .SH RETURNS
. \" .SH ERRORS
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Options are passed to the
.B admin
program, e.g.:
.TP
.B \-o
Use the original file time instead of the current time for
the time of the initial delta.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To create a new
.B SCCS
repository for the file
.B xec.c
in the current directory call:
.IP
.B "sccs create xec.c"
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (7)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR sccs-create (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.B sccs create
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .
.\" .SH FILES

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See 
.BR attributes (7)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.LP
.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySCHILYdeveloper-build-sccs
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-check (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-diffs (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-editor (1),
.BR sccs\-fix (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-info (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-ldiffs (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rcs2sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rename (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-tell (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (5),
.BR sccsfile (5).
.hy 14
.\" .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" .SH NOTES

.SH BUGS
.PP
None currently known.
.PP
Mail bugs and suggestions to
.B schilytools@mlists.in-berlin.de
or open a ticket at
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/issues .
.PP
The mailing list archive may be found at:
.PP
.nf
.BR https://mlists.in-berlin.de/mailman/listinfo/schilytools-mlists.in-berlin.de .
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
.B sccs create
was originally written by Eric Allman at UCB in 1980. It was later
maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems. Since 2006,
it has been maintained by J\*org Schilling and the schilytools project
authors.

.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
The source code for
.B SCCS
is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Codeberg at
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools .
.LP
The download directory is
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/releases .
