.\" @(#)sccslog.1	1.16 14/09/15 Copyr 1997-2014 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for sccslog
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\" A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccslog 1 "2014/09/15" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sccslog \- create a changelog from SCCS history files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
sccslog 
.RI [ options ]
.I file1 .. filen
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Sccslog
creates a Changelog file from SCCS history files.
.LP
If a file argument refers to a directory, the directory is scanned
for file names that start with ``s.'' and examines all these files.
. \" .SH RETURNS
. \" .SH ERRORS
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
.B \-a
.B sccslog
normally collects all deltas with the same delta comment and prints them
as one log table entry in case the related delta time for the files differs
no more than one day. With 
.BR \-a ,
.B sccslog
collects only those deltas that have been created within 60 seconds.
.TP
.B \-aa
With 
.BR \-aa ,
.B sccslog
collects only deltas that have been created in the same second.
.TP
.BI \-C dir
Use
.I dir
as base directory for printed file names in the output.
This option is used by
.B "sccs \-R"
to tell
.B sccslog
to print filenames that are suitable for complete project changelog files.
.TP
.BI \-p " subdir"
Tell
.B sccslog
to use 
.I subdir
when dealing with file names.
.TP
.B \-x
Print all comment lines, even those lines that start with
.B ^Ac_ 
and thus are no real comment but represent SCCS v6 metadata
that has been wrapped as comment to survive modifications by SCCS v4 programs.
Such wrapped data is file specific and will prevent to find more files with
the same delta comment.
.TP
.B \-help
Prints a short summary of the 
.B sccslog
options and exists.
.TP
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-version
Prints the
.B sccslog
version number string and exists.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To creates a changelog for all SCCS history files in directory SCCS call:
.IP
.B "sccslog SCCS/s.*"
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $HOME/.sccs/usermap
This file contains a map list from user names to user descriptions.
It consists of a list of lines (each for one user) that start with
a user name, followed by white space and a user description.
It may e.g. look like:
.sp
.nf
joerg   Joerg Schilling <schily@somewhere.com>
ronnie  Ronnie Nowhere <ronnie@nowhere.com>
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-comb (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs-unget (1),
.BR sccs-val (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR changeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH NOTES
.SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
.BR sccslog (1)
was origininally written by J\*org Schilling in 1997 and is still
maintained by J\*org Schilling.
