'\" te
.\" @(#)sccs-prs.1	1.25 18/03/15 Copyright 2007-2018 J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may use this file only in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-prs 1 "2018/03/15" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-prs, prs \- display selected portions of an SCCS history
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.B "/usr/ccs/bin/prs \c
.RB [ -ael "] \c
.RB [ -c\c
.IR date-time "] \c
.RB [ -d\c
.IR dataspec "]
.br
.RB "    [" -q\c
.RI [ nsedelim "]] \c
.RB [ -r\c
.IR sid "] \c
.IR s.filename ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.LP
The
.B prs
utility displays part or all of the
.B SCCS
file (see 
.BR sccsfile (4))
in a user supplied format.

.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B prs
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory. Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any). The use of
.RB ` \(mi '
as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the
standard input, one
.BR s. file
per line.

.SH OPTIONS

.LP
In the absence of options,
.B prs
displays the delta table (version log). In the absence of
.BR -d ,
or
.BR -l ,
.B prs
displays the entry for each delta indicated by the other options.

.br
.ne 3
.TP 13
.B -a
Includes all deltas, including those marked as removed (see 
.BR sccs-rmdel (1)).

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -e
Requests information for all deltas created
.I earlier
than, and including, the delta indicated with
.B -r
or
.BR -c .

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -l
Requests information for all deltas created
.I later
than, and including, the delta indicated with
.B -r
or
.BR -c .

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -c date-time
Either options
.B \-e
or
.B \-l
must be used with this option. 
.BI \-c date-time
displays information on the deltas checked in either prior to and including the
date and time indicated by the
.I date-time
argument (option
.BR \-e );
or later than and including the date and time indicated (option
.BR \-l ).
.I date-time
takes the form:
.sp
.IR " yy" [ mm [ dd [\c
.IR hh [ mm [ ss ]\|]\|]\|]\|]
.sp
Units omitted from the indicated date and time default to their maximum
possible values; that is
.B \-c7502
is equivalent to
.BR "\-c750228235959" .
Any number of non-numeric characters may separate the various 2 digit
components.
If white-space characters occur, the
.I date-time
specification must be quoted. Values of
.I yy
in the range
.BR 69 \(mi 99
refer to the twentieth century.
Values in the range of
.BR 00 \(mi 68
refer to the twenty-first century.
.sp
A
.I date-time
specification in the form:
.sp
.IR " yyyy" /[ mm [ dd [\c
.IR hh [ mm [ ss ]\|]\|]\|]\|]
.sp
refers to a 4-digit year and allows to specify a year outside the
range
.BR 1969 \(mi 2068 .

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -d dataspec
Produce a report according to the indicated data specification.
.I dataspec
consists of a (quoted) text string that includes embedded
data keywords of the form:
.RB ` :\c
.IB key :\c
\&'
(see
.BR "Data Keywords" ,
below).
.B prs
expands these keywords in the output it produces. To specify a
.B TAB
character in the output, use
.BR \et ;
to specify a NEWLINE in the output, use
.BR \en \&. 

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -r sid
Specifies the
.B SCCS
delta
.B ID
.RB ( SID )
of the delta for which information is desired. If no
.B SID
is specified, the most recently created delta is used.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -q\fR[ nsedelim\fR]
Enable
.B NSE
mode.
If
.B NSE
mode is enabled, several
.B NSE
related extensions may be used.
In this release, the value of
.I nsedelim
is ignored.
.sp
This option is an undocumented
.B \s-1SUN\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs 
implementations.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-V
Prints the
.B prs
version number string and exists.

.SH USAGE

.LP
Usage of
.B prs
is described below.
.sp

.SS Data Keywords

.LP
Data keywords specify which parts of an
.B SCCS
file are to be retrieved. All parts of an
.B SCCS
file (see 
.BR sccsfile (4))
have an associated data keyword. A data keyword may appear any number
of times in a data specification argument to
.BR -d .
These data keywords are listed in the table below: 

.LP
.in +2
.nf

.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP

.sp
.TS
tab();
lw(.55i) lw(1.64i) lw(.65i) lw(1.62i) lw(.65i)
lw(.55i) lw(1.64i) lw(.65i) lw(1.62i) lw(.65i)
.
\fIKeyword\fR\fIData Item\fR\fIFile Section*\fR\fIValue\fR\fIFormat\fR**
\fB:A:\fRA form of \fBwhat\fR string:N/A\fB:Z::Y: :M: :I::Z:\fRS
\fB:AC:\fRCMF validation programF\fItext\fRS
\fB:B:\fRbranch numberD\fInnnn\fRS
\fB:BD:\fRbodyB\fItext\fRM
\fB:BF:\fRbranch flagF\fByes\fR or \fBno\fRS
\fB:CB:\fRceiling boundaryF\fB:R:\fRS
\fB:C:\fRcomments for deltaD\fItext\fRM
\fB:D:\fRdate delta createdD\fB:Dy:/:Dm:/:Dd:\fRS
\fB:d:\fRdate delta createdD\fB:DY:/:Dm:/:Dd:\fRS
\fB:D_:\fRdate delta createdD\fB:DY:-:Dm:-:Dd:\fRS
\fB:Dd:\fRday delta createdD\fInn\fRS
\fB:Dg:\fRdeltas ignored (seq #)D\fB:DS: :DS:\fR\|.\|.\|.S
\fB:DI:\fRT{
seq-no. of deltas included, excluded, ignored
T}D\fB:Dn:/:Dx:/:Dg:\fRS
\fB:DL:\fRdelta line statisticsD\fB:Li:/:Ld:/:Lu:\fRS
\fB:Dm:\fRmonth delta createdD\fInn\fRS
\fB:Dn:\fRdeltas included (seq #)D\fB:DS: :DS:\fR\|.\|.\|.S
\fB:DP:\fRpredecessor delta seq-no. D\fInnnn\fRS
\fB:Ds:\fRdefault SIDF\fB:I:\fRS
\fB:DS:\fRdelta sequence numberD\fInnnn\fRS
\fB:Dt:\fRdelta informationD \fB:DT: :I: :D: :T: :P: :DS: :DP:\fRS
\fB:DT:\fRdelta typeD\fBD\fR or \fBR\fRS
\fB:Dx:\fRdeltas excluded (seq #)D\fB:DS:\fR \|.\|.\|.S
\fB:Dy:\fRyear delta createdD\fInn\fRS
\fB:DY:\fRyear delta createdD\fInnnn\fRS
\fB:F:\fR\fBs.\fRfile nameN/A\fItext\fRS
\fB:G:\fRfile nameN/A\fItext\fRS
\fB:FB:\fRfloor boundaryF\fB:R:\fRS
\fB:FD:\fRfile descriptive textC\fItext\fRM
\fB:FL:\fRflag listF\fItext\fRM
\fB:GB:\fRgotten bodyB\fItext\fRM
\fB:I:\fRSCCS delta ID (SID)D\fB:R:.:L:.:B:.:S:\fRS
\fB:J:\fRjoint edit flagF\fByes\fR or \fBno\fRS
\fB:KF:\fRkeyword error/warning flagF\fByes\fR or \fBno\fRS
\fB:L:\fRlevel numberD\fInnnn\fRS
\fB:Ld:\fRlines deleted by deltaD\fInnnnn\fRS
\fB:Li:\fRlines inserted by deltaD\fInnnnn\fRS
\fB:LK:\fRlocked releasesF\fB:R:\fR\|.\|.\|.S
\fB:Lu:\fRlines unchanged by deltaD\fInnnnn\fRS
\fB:M:\fRmodule nameF\fItext\fRS
\fB:MC:\fRCMF validation flagF\fByes\fR or \fBno\fRS
\fB:MF:\fRMR validation flagF\fByes\fR or \fBno\fRS
\fB:MP:\fRMR validation programF\fItext\fRS
\fB:MR:\fRMR numbers for deltaD\fItext\fRM
\fB:ND:\fRnull delta flagF\fByes\fR or \fBno\fRS
\fB:Q:\fRuser defined keywordF\fItext\fRS
\fB:P:\fRuser who created deltaD\fIusername\fRS
\fB:PN:\fR\fBs.\fRfile's pathnameN/A\fItext\fRS
\fB:R:\fRrelease numberD\fInnnn\fRS
\fB:S:\fRsequence numberD\fInnnn\fRS
\fB:SX:\fRSID specific extensionsD\fItext\fRM
\fB:T:\fRtime delta createdD\fB:Th:::Tm:::Ts:\fRS
\fB:Th:\fRhour delta createdD\fInn\fRS
\fB:Tm:\fRminutes delta createdD\fInn\fRS
\fB:Ts:\fRseconds delta createdD\fInn\fRS
\fB:UN:\fRuser namesU\fItext\fRM
\fB:W:\fRA form of \fBwhat\fR stringN/A\fB:Z::M:\et:I:\fRS
\fB:Y:\fRmodule type flagF\fItext\fRS
\fB:Z:\fR\fBwhat\fR string delimiterN/A\fB@(#)\fRS
.TE

.LP
	*B = body, D = delta table, F = flags, U = user names 	
.LP
	**S = simple format, M = multi-line format
.sp

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Displaying delta entries

.LP
The following command:

.LP
.in +2
.nf
example% \c
.B
/usr/ccs/bin/prs -e -d":I:\et:P:" program.c
.fi
.in -2

.LP
produces:

.LP
.in +2
.nf
1.6	username
1.5	username
\&.\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR prs (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR prs (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 3
.TP 5
.B 0
Successful completion.
.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 3
.TP 15n
.BI s. file
.B SCCS
history file, see
.BR sccsfile (4).

.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.B /tmp/pr?????
temporary file

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B dump.core
If the file
.B dump.core
exists in the current directory and a fatal signal is received, a coredump
is initiated via
.BR abort (3).

.SH ATTRIBUTES

.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.LP

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).
.hy 14

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Use the SCCS
.B help
command for explanations (see 
.BR sccs-help (1)).

.SH AUTHORS
The
.B SCCS
suite was originally written by Marc J. Rochkind at Bell Labs in 1972.
Release 4.0 of
.BR SCCS ,
introducing new versions of the programs
.BR admin (1),
.BR get (1),
.BR prt (1),
and
.BR delta (1)
was published on February 18, 1977; it introduced the new text based
.B SCCS\ v4
history file format (previous
.B SCCS
releases used a binary history file format).
The
.B SCCS
suite
was later maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems.
Since 2006, the
.B SCCS
suite is maintained by J\*org Schilling.
