.\" @(#)sccs-tell.1	1.1 20/06/29 Copyr 2020 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for sccs-tell
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\" A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-tell 1 "2022/10/06" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sccs-check, sccs-info, sccs-tell \- print information about file being edited
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
sccs check
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ directory ]
.br
.B
sccs info
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ directory ]
.br
.B
sccs tell
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ directory ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sccs check
checks for files currently being edited. Like
.B info
and
.BR tell ,
but returns an exit code, rather than producing a listing of files.
.B check
returns a non-zero exit status if anything is being edited.
The intent is to have this included in an ``install''
entry in a makefile
to insure that everything is included into the
.SM SCCS
file
before a version is installed.
.LP
.B sccs info
displays a list of files being edited, including the version number checked out,
the version to be checked in, the name of the user who holds the lock,
and the date and time the file was checked out.
.LP
If the
.B \-b
flag is given,
branches (i.e.,
\s-1SID\s0's with two or fewer components)
are ignored.
If the
.B \-u
flag is given
(with an optional argument)
then only files being edited by you
(or the named user)
are listed.
.LP
.B sccs tell
displays the list of files that are currently checked out, one file per line.




.LP
If no directory argument is given, the current working directory is used.
. \" .SH RETURNS
. \" .SH ERRORS
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.br
.ne 5
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.HP
.BR check " [" -b "] [" -u\c
.RI [ username "] ]"
.br
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR check " [" -b "] [" -u
.RI [ username ]
.RB | " -U " ]
.sp .6
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -b
.sp .6
Ignore branches.

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR -u [\c
.IR username]
|
.B -u
.RI [ username ]
|
.B -U
.sp .6
Check only files being edited by you.  When
.I username
is specified, check only files being edited by that user. For
.BR /usr/xpg4/bin/sccs ,
the
.B -U
option is equivalent to
.B -u
.RI < current_user >.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To create a list of files currently being edited, call:
.IP
.B "sccs tell"
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (7)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR sccs-check (1),
.BR sccs-info (1)
and
.BR sccs-tell (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR "sccs check" ,
.B sccs info
and
.B sccs tell
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .
.\" .SH FILES

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See 
.BR attributes (7)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.LP
.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySCHILYdeveloper-build-sccs
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-create (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-diffs (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-editor (1),
.BR sccs\-enter (1),
.BR sccs\-fix (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-ldiffs (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rcs2sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rename (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (5),
.BR sccsfile (5).
.hy 14

.\" .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" .SH NOTES
.SH BUGS
.PP
None currently known.
.PP
Mail bugs and suggestions to
.B schilytools@mlists.in-berlin.de
or open a ticket at
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/issues .
.PP
The mailing list archive may be found at:
.PP
.nf
.BR https://mlists.in-berlin.de/mailman/listinfo/schilytools-mlists.in-berlin.de .
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
.BR "sccs check" ,
.B "sccs info"
and
.B "sccs tell"
were originally written by Eric Allman at UCB in 1980. They have later
been maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems. Since
2006, they have been maintained by J\*org Schilling and the
schilytools project authors.

.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
The source code for
.B SCCS
is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Codeberg at
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools .
.LP
The download directory is
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/releases .
