.\" @(#)sccs-cvt.1	1.26 20/06/28 Copyright 2011-2020 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for sccs-cvt
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\" A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-cvt 1 "2020/06/28" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sccs-cvt, sccscvt \- convert SCCS history files between v4/v6
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
sccscvt
.B "[ options ]"
.I s.file1 .. s.filen
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Sccscvt
converts
.B SCCS\ v4
history files (as introduced in February 1977) into
.B SCCS\ v6
history files (as introduced in August 2011) and vice versa.
.LP
The first line, containing the SCCS magic number and the checksum is converted
to the format that is appropriate. The time format in the delta table is
converted by either removing the
.B SCCS\ v6
extensions or by adding time zone
information by assuming that all time stamps are from the local time zone. When
converting from
.B SCCS\ v6
to
.BR "SCCS\ v4" ,
the enhanced time stamp data is retained as
the first delta comment line in a delta block.
.LP
SID specific
.B SCCS\ v6
enhancements are converted into special delta comment to 
prevent information loss when converting to
.BR "SCCS\ v4" .
.LP
The
.B SCCS\ v6
enhancements that are between the
.B SCCS\ v4
flags indicated by
.B ^Af
and the SCCS comment block that is bracketed between
.B ^At
and
.B ^AT
are untouched as these enhancements are not flagged by historic SCCS versions
and retained by historic SCCS versions when a history file is modified.
.LP
When in old mode, the option
.B \-NSCCS
is not in effect and a file argument refers to a directory, the directory is
scanned for file names that start with ``s.'' and examines all these files.
.LP
When in new mode, the option
.B \-NSCCS
is in effect, and a file argument refers to a directory,
.B sccs-cvt
opens the corresponding directory with SCCS history files and scans it
for file names that start with ``s.'' and examines all these files.
.LP
It is recommended not to call
.B sccs-cvt
directly but via
.RB `` "sccs cvt" ''
as this automatically adds the 
.B \-NSCCS
option in new mode. This is needed in order to get the path name as global
meta data into the converted SCCSv6 history file.
.SS "Converting an old mode project into a new mode project"
.LP
It is recommended to first initialize the project to use an in-tree repository
by calling:
.sp
.B "    sccs init -i ."
.sp
in order to prepare the new mode.
.LP
By then calling:
.sp
.B "    SCCS_NMODE= sccs cvt -k -ooo ."
.sp
all SCCS history files from the current directory are converted.
The environment
.B SCCS_NMODE=
is currently needed in order to enforce new mode in
.BR sccs (1).
Repeat the last command wth other directories from the project.
.LP
This program is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
. \" .SH RETURNS
. \" .SH ERRORS
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
.B \-d
When converting from
.B SCCS\ v6
to
.BR "SCCS\ v4" ,
discard the extended
.B SCCS\ v6
meta data instead of converting it into special
degenerated delta comments.
.TP
.B \-help
Prints a short summary of the 
.B sccscvt
options and exists.
.TP
.B \-k
.TP
.B \-keep
Keep the original history file as
.BI o. file\fR.
When this option is missing, the original file is replaced by the
converted file.
.TP
.B \-o
Keep the old time stamp for the converted file.
.TP
.B \-oo
Set the time stamp for the converted file to the time stamp
of the original file + 1 nanosecond.
This is sufficient for modern filesystems like
.B ZFS
to get a distinguishable newer time that is still similar to the old time stamp.
.TP
.B \-ooo
Set the time stamp for the converted file to the time stamp
of the original file + 1 microsecond.
This is sufficient for older filesystems like
.B UFS
to get a distinguishable newer time that is still similar to the old time stamp.
.TP
.B \-oooo
Set the time stamp for the converted file to the time stamp
of the original file + 1 second.
This is sufficient for historic filesystems
to get a distinguishable newer time that is still similar to the old time stamp.
.TP
.B \-V4
Convert a
.B SCCS\ v6
history file into a
.B SCCS\ v4
history file.
.TP
.B \-V6
Convert a
.B SCCS\ v4
history file into a
.B SCCS\ v6
history file.

.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -N bulk-spec
Processes a bulk of SCCS history files.
This option allows one to do an efficient mass processing of SCCS history files.
.sp
The
.I bulk-spec
parameter is composed from an optional list of
.B flag
parameters followed by an optional
.B path
specifier.
.sp
The following flag types are supported:
.RS
.TP 10
.B none
.LP
.ne 4
The following path specifier types are supported:
.TP 10
.B \-N
The file name parameters to the
.B sccscvt
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.B s.
to the last path name component.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.B \-Ns.
The file name parameters to the
.B sccscvt
command are
.I s.filename
files.
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.B s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.BI \-N dir
The file name parameters to the
.B sccscvt
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are put into directory
.IR dir ,
the names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.IB dir /s.
to the last path name component.
.TP
.BI \-N dir /s.
The file name parameters to the
.B sccscvt
command are
.I s.filename
files in directory
.IR dir .
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.IB dir /s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
.PP
A typical value for
.I dir
is
.BR SCCS .
.PP
In order to overcome the limited number of
.BR exec (2)
arguments, it is recommended to use
.RB ` \(mi \&'
as the file name parameter for
.BR sccscvt (1)
and to send a list of path names to
.RE

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-X extended\-options
Specify extended options. The argument
.I extended\-options
may be a comma separated list of extended option names.
.sp
The following extended options are supported, they may be abbreviated as long
ad the abbreviation is still unique. Options with parameter may not be
abbreviated.
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B 0
When reading filenames from
.BR stdin ,
triggered by a file name argument
.RB ` - ',
the filename separator is a
.B null byte
instead of a
.BR newline .
This allows one to use long lists with arbitrary filenames.
.TP
.B help
Print a short online help for available options.
.PP
The
.B \-X
option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
.RE

.TP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-version
.TP
.B \-\-version
.PD
Prints the
.B sccscvt
version number string and exists.
.\" .SH EXAMPLES

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR sccscvt (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR sccscvt (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B TZ
Used for the timezone when converting between
.B SCCS\ v4
and
.BR "SCCS\ v6" .

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP 5
.B 0
Successful completion.
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B -1
A wrong option or parameter was specified.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI s. file
history file
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI o. file
saved original version of the history file
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI x. file
temporary copy of the
.BR s. file;
renamed to the
.BR s. file
after completion.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI z. file
temporary lock file contains the binary process id in host byte order
followed by the host name

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.LP
.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySCHILYdeveloper-build-sccs
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-check (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-create (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-diffs (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-editor (1),
.BR sccs\-enter (1),
.BR sccs\-fix (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-info (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-ldiffs (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rcs2sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rename (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-tell (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).
.hy 14

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH NOTES
If a SCCS history file is converted from
.B SCCS\ v4
to
.B SCCS\ v6
and there is no
retained
.B SCCS\ v6
timestamp information in the delta comment, it may be a good
idea to manually correct time zone information.
.SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
.BR sccscvt (1)
was originally written by J\*org Schilling in 2011 and is still
maintained by J\*org Schilling.

.br
.ne 7
.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
A frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Sourceforge at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/
.LP
The download directory is:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/files/
.LP
Check for the
.B schily\-*.tar.bz2
archives.
.LP
Less frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/sccs/files/
.LP
Separate project information for the
.B SCCS
project may be retrieved from:
.LP
.B
    http://sccs.sf.net
.br
