'\" te
.\" @(#)sccs.1	4.36 15/01/20 Copyright 2007-2015 J. Schilling
.\" 
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs 1 "2015/01/20" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs \- front end for the Source Code Control System (SCCS)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B /usr/bin/sccs
.RB [ \-R ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-d\c
.IR rootprefix ]
.RB [ \-p\c
.IR subdir ]
.I subcommand
.if n .br
.if n 	
.RI [ option ]...
.RI [ file ]...
.LP
.B /usr/xpg4/bin/sccs
.RB [ \-R ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-d
.IR rootprefix ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR subdir ]
.if n .br
.if n 	
.I subcommand
.RI "[" option ]...
.RI [ file ]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B sccs
command is a comprehensive, straightforward front end to the various utility
programs of the Source Code Control System
.RB ( SCCS ).

.LP
.B sccs
applies the indicated
.I subcommand
to the history file associated with each of the indicated files.

.LP
The name of an
.B SCCS
history file is derived by prepending the
.RB ` s. '
prefix to the filename of a working copy. The
.B sccs
command normally expects these
.RB ` s. files'
to reside in an
.B SCCS
subdirectory.
Thus, when you supply
.B sccs
with a
.I file
argument, it normally applies the subcommand to a file named
.BI s. file
in the
.B SCCS
subdirectory. If
.I file
is a path name,
.B sccs
looks for the history file in the
.B SCCS
subdirectory of that file's parent directory. If
.I file
is a directory, however,
.B sccs
applies the subcommand to every
.BR s. file
it contains. Thus, the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs get program.c
.fi
.in -2

.LP
would apply the
.B get
subcommand to a history file named
.BR SCCS/s.program.c ,
while the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs get SCCS
.fi
.in -2

.LP
would apply it to every
.BR s. file
in the
.B SCCS
subdirectory.

.LP
Options for the
.B sccs
command itself must appear before the
.I subcommand
argument. Options for a given subcommand must appear after the
.I subcommand
argument. These options are specific to each subcommand, and are described
along with the subcommands themselves (see
.B Subcommands
below).

.br
.ne 8
.SS "Subcommand overview"
.LP
.ne 5
Besides the usual
.SM SCCS
commands,
several ``pseudo-commands'' can be issued.
These are:

.br
.ne 4
.TP 1i
.B branch
Create a new branch and retrieve a version for editing.
Equivalent to ``get \-b \-e'' followed by ``delta \-s \-n'' followed by
``get \-e \-t \-g''.

The
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-r
and
.B \-x
flags are passed to the first
.B get\c
; the
.B \-p
and
.B \-l
flags are passed to the second
.BR get .

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B cvt
Convert SCCS history files between SCCS v4 and SCCS v6.
Equivalent to ``sccscvt''.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B edit
Retrieves a version for editing.
Equivalent to ``get \-e''.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B editor
Edit a file whether or not it is controlled by SCCS.
Retrieves a version for editing before, if needed.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B delget
Perform a delta on the named files
and then get new versions.
The new versions will have id keywords expanded,
and will not be editable.
The
.BR \-m ,
.BR \-o ,
.BR \-p ,
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-s ,
and
.B \-y
flags will be passed to delta,
and the
.BR \-b ,
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-i,
.BR \-k ,
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-s ,
and
.B \-x
flags will be passed to get.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B deledit
Equivalent to
.B delget
except that the
.B get
phase includes the
.B \-e
flag.
This option is useful for making a ``checkpoint''
of your current editing phase.
The same flags will be passed to delta
as described above,
and all the flags listed for
.B get
above except
.B \-e
and
.B \-k
are passed to
.BR edit .

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B create
Creates an
.SM SCCS
file,
taking the initial contents from the file of the same name.
Any flags to
.B admin
are accepted.
If the creation is successful,
the files are renamed with a comma on the front.
These should be removed when you are convinced that
the
.SM SCCS
files have been created successfully.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B fix
Must be followed by a
.B \-r
flag.
This command essentially removes the named delta,
but leaves you with a copy of the delta
with the changes that were in it.
It is useful for fixing small compiler bugs, etc.
Since it doesn't leave audit trails,
it should be used carefully.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B clean
This routine removes everything from the current directory
that can be recreated from SCCS files.
It will not remove any files being edited.
If the
.B \-b
flag is given, branches are ignored in the determination
of whether they are being edited;
this is dangerous if you are keeping the branches in the
same directory.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B unedit
This is the opposite of an
.B edit
or a
.BR "get \-e" .
It should be used with extreme caution,
since any changes you made since the get
will be irretrievably lost.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B info
Gives a listing of all files being edited.
If the
.B \-b
flag is given,
branches (i.e.,
\s-1SID\s0's with two or fewer components)
are ignored.
If the
.B \-u
flag is given
(with an optional argument)
then only files being edited by you
(or the named user)
are listed.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B istext
Checks whether the files are pure text files or whether they need
to be encoded.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B check
Like
.B info
except that nothing is printed if nothing is being edited,
and a non-zero exit status is returned if anything
is being edited.
The intent is to have this included in an ``install''
entry in a makefile
to insure that everything is included into the
.SM SCCS
file
before a version is installed.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B tell
Gives a newline-separated list
of the files being edited
on the standard output.
Takes the
.B \-b
and
.B \-u
flags like
.B info
and
.BR check .

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B diffs
Gives a ``diff'' listing between the current version of the
program(s) you have out for editing and the versions
in
.SM SCCS
format.
The
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-x ,
and
.B \-t
flags are passed to
.B get\c
; the
.BR \-l ,
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-f ,
.B \-h
and
.B \-b
flags are passed to
.BR diff .
The
.B \-C
flag is passed to
.B diff
as
.BR \-c .

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B ldiffs
The same as
.B sccs diffs
but the
.BR diff (1)
command from the local platform is used instead of the
.B diff
command included with the
.B SCCS
system.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B log
Display a changelog from
.SM SCCS 
history files using delta comments.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B print
This command prints out verbose information
about the named files.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B rcs2sccs
This command converts RCS files into SCCS files.

.SS "Running Recursively"
.LP
The
.B \-R
flag lets
.B sccs
iterate the command over the directory tree below the directory
tree below the current working directory or the directory tree
below the directory type argument. Some commands are currently
not permitted to be run in recursive mode.

.br
.ne 5 
.SS "Running Setuid"
.LP
The
.B sccs
command also includes the capability to run ``setuid''
to provide additional protection.
However, this does not apply to subcommands such as
.BR sccs-admin (1),
since this would allow anyone to change the authorizations of the history file.
Commands that would do so always run as the real user.
The
.B \-r
flag runs
.B sccs
as the real user
rather than as whatever effective user
.B sccs
is ``set user id'' to.

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported by the
.BR sccs (1)
command itself:
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.TP
.BI \-d rootprefix
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"
.TP
.BI \-d " rootprefix
....sp .6
Defines the root portion of the path name for
.B SCCS
history files. The default root portion is the current directory.
.I rootprefix
is prepended to the entire
.I file
argument, even if
.I file
is an absolute path name.
.B \-d
overrides any directory specified by the
.B PROJECTDIR
environment variable (see ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES below).

.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.TP
.BI \-p subdir
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"
.TP
.BI \-p " subdir
...sp .6
Defines the (sub)directory within which a history file is expected to reside.
.B SCCS
is the default. (See EXAMPLES below).

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-r
Runs
.B sccs
with the real user
.BR ID ,
rather than set to the effective user
.BR ID .

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-R
Run
.B sccs
in recursive mode via
.BR libfind .
If no file type arguments are given to the related
.B sccs
subcommand, the directory scan operation starts at the current directory.
If the related subcommand is expected to operate only on files that are
currently edited,
.B sccs
only operates on files for which an associated ``p.'' file exists.
For all other subcommands,
.B sccs 
operated on all ``s.'' files except for those that are in ignored
sub directories.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-T
Trace.  Print extra debug messages.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-V
Prints the
.B sccs
version number string and exists.

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.I file
.sp .6
a file passed to
.IR subcommand

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.I option
.sp .6
an option or option-argument passed to
.I subcommand

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.I subcommand
.sp .6
one of the subcommands listed in
.B Usage

.SH USAGE
.LP
The usage for
.B sccs
is described below.
.SS "Subcommands"
.sp
.LP
Many of the following
.B sccs
subcommands invoke programs that reside in
.BR /usr/ccs/bin .
Many of these subcommands accept additional arguments that are
documented in the reference page for the utility program the
subcommand invokes.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B admin
.sp .6
Modify the flags or checksum of an
.B SCCS
history file. Refer to
.BR sccs-admin (1)
for more information about the
.B admin
utility.
While
.B admin
can be used to initialize a history file, you might find that the
.B create
subcommand is simpler to use for this purpose.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B branch
.sp .6
Create a new branch and retrieve a version for editing.
Except for creating a new branch, this is equivalent to the
.B edit
subcommand.

.br
.ne 5
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.HP
.BI "cdc -r" sid
.RB [ -y [\c
.IR comment ]]
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BI "cdc -r " sid
|
.BI -r sid
.RB [ -y [\c
.IR comment ]]
.sp .6
Annotate (change) the delta commentary.
Refer to
.BR sccs-cdc (1)
for more information about the
.B cdc
utility.
The
.B fix
subcommand can be used to replace the delta, rather
than merely annotating the existing commentary.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.HP
.B -r\c
.I " sid \c
| \c
.BI -r sid
.sp .6
Specify the
.B SCCS
delta
.B ID
.RB ( SID )
to which the change notation is to be added. The
.B SID
for a given delta is a number, in Dewey decimal format, composed of two or
four fields: the
.I release
and
.I level
fields, and for branch deltas, the
.I branch
and
.I sequence
fields. For instance, the
.B SID
for the initial delta is normally
.BR 1.1 .

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.B \-y\c
.RI [ comment ]
.sp .6
Specify the comment with which to annotate the delta commentary. If
.B -y
is omitted,
.B sccs
prompts for a comment. A null
.I comment
results in an empty annotation.
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.HP
.BR check " [" -b "] [" -u\c
.RI [ username "] ]"
.br
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR check " [" -b "] [" -u
.RI [ username ]
.RB | " -U " ]
.sp .6
Check for files currently being edited. Like
.B info
and
.BR tell ,
but returns an exit code, rather than producing a listing of files.
.B check
returns a non-zero exit status if anything is being edited.
The intent is to have this included in an ``install''
entry in a makefile
to insure that everything is included into the
.SM SCCS
file
before a version is installed.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.TP
.B -b
.sp .6
Ignore branches.

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR -u [\c
.IR username]
|
.B -u
.RI [ username ]
|
.B -U
.sp .6
Check only files being edited by you.  When
.I username
is specified, check only files being edited by that user. For
.BR /usr/xpg4/bin/sccs ,
the
.B -U
option is equivalent to
.B -u
.RI < current_user >.
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BR clean " [ " -b " ]"
.sp .6
Remove everything in the current directory that can be retrieved from an
.B SCCS
history.  Does not remove files that are being edited.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.TP
.B -b
Do not check branches to see if they are being edited.
.RB ` "clean -b" '
is dangerous when branch versions are kept in the same directory.

.RE

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B comb
.sp .6
Generate scripts to combine deltas.
Refer to
.BR sccs-comb (1)
for more information about the
.B comb
utility.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BR create " [" \-o ]
.sp .6
Create (initialize) history files.
.B create
performs the following steps:
.RS +5
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Renames the original source file to
.B ,program.c
in the current directory.
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Create the history file called
.B s.program.c
in the
.B SCCS
subdirectory.
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Performs an
.RB ` "sccs get" '
on
.B program.c
to retrieve a read-only copy of the initial version.
.LP
Options are passed tp the
.B admin
program, e.g.:
.TP
.B \-o
Use the original file time instead of the current time for
the time of the initial delta.
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B cvt
.sp .6
Convert
.B SCCS v4
history files (as introduced in February 1977) into
.B SCCS v6
history files (as introduced in August 2011) and vice versa.
Refer to
.BR sccs-cvt (1)
for more information about the
.B sccscvt
utility.
.sp
This subcommand is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.br
.ne 5
.HP
.BR deledit " [" \-o "] [" \-s "] [\c
.BR \-y [\c
.IR comment "]\|]"
.sp .6
Equivalent to an
.RB ` "sccs delta" '
and then an
.RB ` "sccs edit" '.
.B deledit
checks in a delta, and checks the file back out again,
but leaves the current working copy of the file intact.
The same flags will be passed to delta
as described with ``delget'',
and all the flags listed with ``delget'' for ``get'' except
.BR \-e " and  " \-k
are passed to ``edit''.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.TP
.B \-o
.sp .6
Use the original file time instead of the current time for
the time of the delta.
.TP
.B -s
.sp .6
Silent. Do not report delta numbers or statistics.

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR -y [\c
.IR comment ]
.sp .6
Supply a comment for the delta commentary.  If
.B -y
is omitted,
.B delta
prompts for a comment.  A null
.I comment
results in an empty comment field for the delta.

.RE

.br
.ne 5
.HP
.BR delget " [" \-o "] [" \-s "] [\c
.BR \-y [\c
.IR comment "]\|]"
.sp .6
Perform an
.RB ` "sccs delta" '
and then an
.RB ` "sccs get" '
to check in a delta and retrieve read-only copies of the resulting new version.
See the
.B deledit
subcommand for a description of
.B -s
and
.BR -y .
.B sccs
performs a
.B delta
on all the files specified in the argument list, and then a
.B get
on all the files. If an error occurs during the
.BR delta ,
the
.B get
is not performed.
The
.BR \-m ",
.BR \-o ", "\-p ", " \-r , 
.BR \-s ", and " \-y
flags will be passed to delta,
and the
.BR \-b ", " \-c ", " \-e , 
.BR \-i ", " \-k ", " \-l ,
.BR \-s ", and " \-x
flags will be passed to get.

.br
.ne 5
.HP
.BR delta " [" \-o "] [" \-s "] [\c
.BR \-y [\c
.IR comment "]\|]"
.sp .6
Check in pending changes.
Records the line-by-line changes introduced while the file was checked out.
The effective user
.B ID
must be the same as the
.B ID
of the person who has the file checked out.
Refer to
.BR sccs-delta (1)
for more information about the
.B delta
utility.
See the
.B deledit
subcommand for a description of
.B -s
and
.BR -y .

.br
.ne 5
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.HP
.BR diffs " [" -C ]
.RB [ -I ]
.RB [ -c\c
.IR date-time ]
.RB [ -r\c
.IR sid ]
.I diff-options
.br
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR diffs " [" -C ]
.RB [ -I ]
.RB [ -c
.IR date-time " |
.BI -c date-time
]
.br
.RB [ -r
.I sid
.RB "| " -r\c
.IR sid]
.I diff-options
.sp .6
Compare (in
.BR diff (1)
format) the working copy of a file that is checked out for editing,
with a version from the
.B SCCS
history.
Use the most recent checked-in version by default. The
.B diffs
subcommand accepts the same options as
.BR diff .
.sp
Any
.BR -r ,
.BR -c ,
.BR -i ,
.BR -x ,
and
.B -t
options are passed to subcommand
.BR get .
A
.B -C
option is passed to
.B diff
as
.BR -c .
An
.B -I
option is passed
to
.B diff
as
.BR -i .
.sp
The
.B diffs
subcommand calls the
.SM UNIX
.BR diff (1)
command that is delivered with the
.SM SCCS
packet. If you like to call the local
.BR diff (1)
command that is in your
.BR PATH,
use the
.B ldiffs
subcommand.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.HP
.BI -c " date-time\c
 | \c
.BI -c date-time
.sp .6
Use the most recent version checked in before the indicated
date and time for comparison.
.I date-time
takes the form:
.IR yy [ mm [ dd [\c
.IR hh [ mm [ ss ]\|]\|]\|]\|].
Omitted units default to their maximum possible values; that is
.B -c7502
is equivalent to
.BR -c750228235959 .

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BI -r " sid\c
 | \c
.BI -r sid
.sp .6
Use the version corresponding to the indicated delta for comparison.
.LP
The
.B SCHILY
version of SCCS calls
.RB ` "get -o" '
to retrieve the old version of the file in order to be able to get
correct time stamps when e.g. the
.B \-u
flag is passed to
.BR diff (1).
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B edit
.sp .6
Retrieve a version of the file for editing.
.RB ` "sccs edit" '
extracts a version of the file that is writable by you, and creates a
.BR  p. file
in the
.B SCCS
subdirectory as lock on the history,
so that no one else can check that version in or out.
.B ID
keywords are retrieved in unexpanded form.
.B edit
accepts the same options as
.BR get ,
below.
Refer to
.BR sccs-get (1)
for more information about the
.B get
utility and
for a list of ID keywords and their definitions.
The
.B edit
subcommand is basically equivalent to ``get -e''.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B editor
.sp .6
Edit a file whether or not is is controlled by SCCS.
If a file is controlled by SCCS and currently not checked out for editing,
the file is checked out for editing first and then edited.
If the file is not under control of SCCS, the editor is called directly.
.sp
The
.B SCCS_EDITOR
or
.B EDITOR
environment variable must be set appropriately in order to call a
custom editor.
.sp
A way to hide the fact that files need to checked out for editing first,
is to set
.B SCCS_EDITOR
and then alias the editor, e.g.:
.sp
   SCCS_EDITOR=ved
   alias ved='sccs editor'
.sp
Note that in order to minimize the side effects of calling the alias
.RB ` "ved *" ',
.B sccs editor
will call
.BR unget (1)
or
.B sccs unedit
on all files that have not been modified by the edit session and that
have not been checked out for editing before.
.sp
This subcommand is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B enter
.sp .6
Similar to
.BR create ,
but omits the final
.RB ` "sccs get" '.
This can be used if an
.RB ` "sccs edit" '
is to be performed immediately after the history file is initialized.

.br
.ne 5
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.HP
.BI "fix \-r" sid
.RB [ \-d ]
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR fix " [" -d "] \c
.BI -r " sid \c
| \c
.BI -r sid
.sp .6
Revise a (leaf) delta.  Remove the indicated delta from the
.B SCCS
history, but leave a working copy of the current version in the directory.
This is useful for incorporating trivial updates for which no audit record
is needed, or for revising the delta commentary.
.B fix
must be followed by a
.B -r
option, to specify the
.B SID
of the delta to remove.
The indicated delta must be the most recent (leaf) delta in its branch. Use
.B fix
with caution since it does not leave an audit trail of differences (although
the previous commentary is retained within the history file).

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.TP
.B \-d
Fully discard the delta.
By default only the file content for the related
.B SID 
is removed and the delta table entry is changed to the new type
.BR `R' . 
When in discard mode, the delta tyble entry is also completely discarded.
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.HP
.BR get " [" -ekmops "] [" -G\c
.IR newname "] [\c
.BI -c date-time\c
.RB "] [" -r [\c
.IR sid "] ]
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR get " [" -ekmops "] [" -G
.I newname
|
.BI -G newname\c
]
.br
.RB [ -c
.I date-time
|
.BI -c date-time\c
.RB "] [" -r
.I sid
|
.BI -r sid\c
]
.sp .6
Retrieve a version from the
.B SCCS
history. By default, this is a read-only working copy of
the most recent version.
.B ID
keywords are in expanded form.
Refer to
.BR sccs-get (1)
for more information about the
.B get
utility,
which includes a list of
.B ID
keywords and their definitions.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.HP
.BI -c " date-time
|
.BI -c date-time
.sp .6
Retrieve the latest version checked in prior to the date and time
indicated by the
.I date-time
argument.
.I date-time
takes the form:
.IR yy [ mm [ dd [\c
.IR hh [ mm [ ss ]\|]\|]\|]\|].

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -e
.sp .6
Retrieve a version for editing. Same as
.BR "sccs edit" .

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.B -G
.I newname
|
.BI -G newname
.sp .6
Use
.I newname
as the name of the retrieved version.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -k
.sp .6
Retrieve a writable copy but do not check out the file.
.B ID
keywords are unexpanded.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -m
.sp .6
Precede each line with the
.B SID
of the delta in which it was added.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -o
.sp .6
Retrieves the file under the original time of
the requested version.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -p
.sp .6
Produce the retrieved version on the standard output. 
Reports that would normally go to the standard output (delta
.BR ID s
and statistics) are directed to the standard error.

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.B -r
.I sid
|
.BI -r sid
.sp .6
Retrieve the version corresponding to the indicated
.BR SID .
For
.BR /usr/bin/sccs ,
if no
.I sid
is specified, the latest
.I sid
for the specified file is retrieved.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -s
.sp .6
Silent. Do not report version numbers or statistics.
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.HP
.BI help " message-code
|
.I sccs-command
.HP
.B help stuck
.sp .6
Supply more information about
.B SCCS
diagnostics.
.B help
displays a brief explanation of the error when you supply the code
displayed by an
.B SCCS
diagnostic message.  If you supply the name of an
.B SCCS
command,
it prints a usage line.
.B help
also recognizes the keyword
.BR stuck .
Refer to
.BR sccs-help (1)
for more information about the
.B help
utility.

.br
.ne 5
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.HP
.BR info " [\c
.BR -b "] [" -u [\c
.IR username "] ]
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR info " [\c
.BR -b "] [" -u " [\c
.IR username ]
|
.BR -U ]
.sp .6
Display a list of files being edited, including the version number checked out,
the version to be checked in, the name of the user who holds the lock,
and the date and time the file was checked out.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.TP
.B -b
Ignore branches.

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR -u [\c
.IR username ]
|
.BR -u " [\c
.IR username]
|
.B -U
.sp .6
List only files checked out by you. When
.I username
is specified, list only files checked out by that user. For
.BR /usr/xpg4/bin/sccs ,
the
.B -U
option is equivalent to
.B -u
.RI < current_user >.
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.HP
.B istext
.RB [ -s ]
.RB [ -V4 " | " -V6 ]
.sp .6
Checks whether the files are pure text files or whether they need
to be encoded.
.RS
.TP
.B \-s
Be silent. If all file are pure text, the exit code is 0.
.TP
.B \-V4
Check with SCCS v4 rules.
A file is not pure text if it contains one or more null characters,
if a line starts with \e001 (^A) or if the file does not end with
a newline character.
.TP
.B \-V6
Check with SCCS v6 rules.
A file is not pure text if it contains one or more null characters.
.RE
.sp
This subcommand is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B ldiffs
.sp .6
Compare different file versions.
.sp
The
.B ldiffs
subcommand calls the local
.SM UNIX
.BR diff (1)
command as found via the
.SM PATH
environment variable.
The
.B ldiffs
subcommand is otherwise identical to the
.B diffs
subcommand.
.sp
This subcommand is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B log
.sp .6
Display a changelog from
.SM SCCS
history files using delta comments.
Refer to
.BR sccs-log (1)
for more information about the
.B sccslog
utility.
.sp
This subcommand is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.


.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B print
.sp .6
Print the entire history of each named file. Equivalent to an
.RB ` "sccs prs -e" '
followed by an
.RB ` "sccs get -p -m" '.

.br
.ne 6
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.HP
.BR prs " [" -el "] [" -c\c
.IR date-time ]
.RB [ -r\c
.IR sid ]
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR prs " [" -el "] [" "-c \c
.I date-time
|
.BI -c date-time\c
]
.RB [ -r
.I sid
|
.BI -r sid\c
]
.sp .6
Peruse (display) the delta table, or other portion of an
.B s.
file.
Refer to
.BR sccs-prs (1)
for more information about the
.B prs
utility.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.HP
.B -c
.I date-time
|
.BI -c date-time
.sp .6
Specify the latest delta checked in before the indicated date and time. The
.I date-time
argument takes the orm:
.IR yy [ mm [ dd [\c
.IR hh [ mm [ ss ]\|]\|]\|]\|].

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -e
.sp .6
.sp
Display delta table information for all deltas earlier than the one
specified with
.B -r
(or all deltas if none is specified).

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -l
.sp .6
.sp
Display information for all deltas later than, and including, that specified by
.B -c
or
.BR -r .

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.B -r
.I sid
|
.BI -r sid
.sp .6
.sp
Specify a given delta by
.BR SID .
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BR prt " ["  -y ]
.sp
Display the delta table, but omit the
.B MR
field (see
.BR sccsfile (4)
for more information on this field).
Refer to
.BR sccs-prt (1)
for more information about the
.B prt
utility.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.TP
.B -y
Display the most recent delta table entry.
The format is a single output line for each file argument, which is
convenient for use in a pipeline with
.BR awk (1)
or
.BR sed (1).
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BR rcs2sccs " ["  -rm "] [" -V6 ]
.sp .6
Convert 
.B RCS
history files into 
.B SCCS 
history files.
If a list of files is specified, this list is converted.
If no file arguments are specified, all RCS files in the current directory
are converted.
Refer to
.BR sccs-rcs2sccs (1)
for more information about the
.B rcs2sccs
utility.
.sp
This subcommand is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.br
.ne 5
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.TP
.BI "rmdel -r" sid
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI "rmdel -r " sid
.sp .6
Remove the indicated delta from the history file. 
That delta must be the most recent (leaf) delta in its branch.
Refer to
.BR sccs-rmdel (1)
for more information about the
.B rmdel
utility.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B sact
.sp .6
Show editing activity status of an
.B SCCS
file.
Refer to
.BR sccs-sact (1)
for more information about the
.B sact
utility.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BI "sccsdiff -r" old-sid " -r" "new-sid diff-options
.sp .6
Compare two versions corresponding to the indicated
.B SIDs
(deltas) using
.BR diff .
Refer to
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1)
for more information about the
.B sccsdiff
utility.

.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.HP
.BR tell " [\c
.BR -b "] [" -u [\c
.IR username "] ]
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR tell " [\c
.BR -b "] [" -u " [\c
.IR username ]
|
.BR -U ]
.sp .6
Display the list of files that are currently checked out, one file per line.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.TP
.B -b
.sp .6
Ignore branches.

.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BR -u [\c
.IR username ]
|
.BR -u " [\c
.IR username]
|
.B -U
.sp .6
List only files checked out to you.  When
.I username
is specified, list only files checked out to that user. For
.BR /usr/xpg4/bin/sccs ,
the
.B -U
option is equivalent to
.B -u
.RI < current_user >.
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.BR unedit " [" -o ]
.sp .6
"Undo" the last
.B edit
or
.RB ` "get -e" ',
and return the working copy to its previous condition.
.B unedit
backs out all pending changes made since the file was checked out.
It should be used with extreme caution,
since any changes you made since the get
will be irretrievably lost.

.br
.ne 3
.RS
.TP
.B \-o
Retrieves the file under the original time instead of the current time
with the final
.B get
command.
.RE

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B unget
.sp .6
Same as
.BR unedit .
Refer to
.BR sccs-unget (1)
for more information about the
.B unget
utility.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B val
.sp .6
Validate the history file.
Refer to
.BR sccs-val (1)
for more information about the
.B val
utility.

.br
.ne 5
.TP
.B what
.sp .6
Display any expanded
.B ID
keyword strings contained in a binary (object) or text file.
Refer to
.BR what (1)
for more information about the
.B what
utility.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Checking out, editing, and checking in a file
.LP
To check out a copy of
.B program.c
for editing, edit it, and then check it back in:

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs edit program.c
1.1
new delta 1.2
14 lines

.RB example% " vi program.c
.I "your editing session

.RB example% " sccs delget program.c
.RB comments? " clarified cryptic diagnostic
1.2
3 inserted
2 deleted
12 unchanged
1.2
15 lines
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 2
Defining the root portion of the command pathname
.LP
.B sccs
converts the command:

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs -d/usr/src/include get stdio.h
.fi
.in -2
.LP
to:

.in +2
.nf
.B "/usr/ccs/bin/get   /usr/src/include/SCCS/s.stdio.h
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 3
Defining the resident subdirectory
.LP
The command:

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs -pprivate get include/stdio.h
.fi
.in -2
.LP
becomes:

.in +2
.nf
.B "/usr/ccs/bin/get   include/private/s.stdio.h
.fi
.in -2

.br.LP
.ne 10
.B Example 4
Initializing a history file
.LP
To initialize the history file for a source file named
.BR program.c ,
use
.RB ` "sccs create" ':

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs create program.c
program.c:
1.1
14 lines
.fi
.in -2
.LP
If needed,
.B sccs
will creeate the
.B SCCS
directory first.
After verifying the working copy, you can remove the backup file
that starts with a comma:

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " diff program.c ,program.c
.RB example% " rm ,program.c
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 5
Retrieving a file from another directory
.sp
.LP
To retrieve a file from another directory into the current directory:

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs get /usr/src/sccs/cc.c
.fi
.in -2

.LP
or:

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs -p/usr/src/sccs/ get cc.c
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 6
Checking out all files
.LP
To check out all files under
.B SCCS
in the current directory:

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs edit SCCS
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 7
Checking in all files
.sp
.LP
To check in all files currently checked out to you:

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs delta `sccs tell -u`
.fi
.in -2

.LP
.B Example 8
Entering multiple lines of comments
.sp
.LP
If using
.B -y
to enter a comment, for most shells, enclose the comment in single or
double quotes. In the following example,
.B Myfile
is checked in with a two-line comment:

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs deledit Myfile -y\c
.B
"Entering a
.B
multi-line comment"
No id keywords (cm7)
1.2
2 inserted
0 deleted
14 unchanged
1.2
new delta 1.3
.fi
.in -2
.LP
Displaying the SCCS history of
.BR Myfile :

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs prt Myfile

SCCS/s.Myfile:

D 1.2   01/04/20  16:37:07  me 2 1    00002/00000/00014
Entering a
multi-line comment

D 1.1   01/04/15  13:23:32  me 1 0    00014/00000/00000
date and time created 01/04/15 13:23:32 by me
.fi
.in -2
.LP
If
.B -y
is not used and
.B sccs
prompts for a comment, the newlines must be escaped using the
backslash character
.RB ( \e ):

.in +2
.nf
.RB example% " sccs deledit Myfile
.RB comments? " Entering a \e
.B multi-line comment
No id keywords (cm7)
1.2
0 inserted
0 deleted
14 unchanged
1.2
new delta 1.3
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR sccs (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 3
.TP 14
.B PROJECTDIR
If contains an absolute path name (beginning with a slash),
.B sccs
searches for
.B SCCS
history files in the directory given by that variable.
.sp
If
.B PROJECTDIR
does not begin with a slash, it is taken as the name of a user, and
.B sccs
searches the
.B src
or
.B source
subdirectory of that user's home directory for history files.
If such a directory is found, it is used.
Otherwise, the value is used as a relative path name.

.br
.ne 3
.TP 14
.B SCCS_EDITOR
The editor to call with the
.B sccs editor
command.

.br
.ne 4
.TP 14
.B EDITOR
The editor to call with the
.B sccs editor
command in case
.B SCCS_EDITOR
is not set.
If neither
.B SCCS_EDITOR
nor
.B EDITOR
is set,
.BR vi (1)
is called as editor.

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR sccs (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B 0
Successful completion.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B >0
An error occurred.

.SH FILES

.br
.ne 3
.TP 15
.B SCCS
.B SCCS
subdirectory

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI SCCS/d. file
temporary file created by the
.BR delta (1)
program with the content of the previous version,
used to compute differences to the current version

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI SCCS/e. file
temporary file to hold an uuencoded version of the
.B g-file 
in case of an encoded history file

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI l. file
file containing extracted delta table info created by the
.BR get (1)
program

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI SCCS/p. file
permissions (lock) file for checked-out versions.
See
.BR sccs-get (1)
for a description of the layout of the
.BR p. file.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI SCCS/q. file
temporary copy of the
.BR p. file;
renamed to the
.BR p. file
after completion

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI SCCS/s. file
.B SCCS
history file

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI SCCS/x. file
temporary copy of the
.BR s. file;
renamed to the
.BR s. file
after completion

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI SCCS/z. file
temporary lock file contains the binary process id in host byte order
followed by the host name

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B /usr/ccs/bin/*
.B SCCS
utility programs

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:

.br
.ne 3
.SS "/usr/bin/sccs"
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/sccs"
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWxcu4t
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).
.hy 14

.SH AUTHORS
.BR sccs (1)
was origininally written by Eric Allman at UCB in 1980. It was later
maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems.
Since 2006, it is maintained by J\*org Schilling.
