'\" te
.\" @(#)sccs-rmdel.1	1.31 20/05/16 Copyright 2007-2020 J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may use this file only in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-rmdel 1 "2020/05/16" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-rmdel, rmdel \- remove a delta from an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.B "/usr/ccs/bin/rmdel \c
.RB [ -d "] \c
.BI -r "sid \c
.RB [ -q\c
.RI [ nsedelim "]] \c
.RB [ -z "]
.br
.RB "    [" -N\c
.IR bulk-spec "] \c
.IR s.filename ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.LP
The
.B rmdel
utility removes the delta specified by the
.B SCCS
delta
.B ID
.RB ( SID )
supplied with
.BR -r .
The delta to be removed must be the most recent (leaf) delta in its branch. In
addition, the
.B SID
must
.I not
be that of a version checked out for editing: it must not appear in any entry
of the version lock file
.RB ( p. file).

.LP
If you created the delta, or, if you own the file and directory and have
write permission, you can remove it with
.BR rmdel .

.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B rmdel
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory. Unreadable
.BR s. files 
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any). The use of
.RB ` \(mi '
as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the
standard input, one
.BR s. file
per line.

.SH OPTIONS

.LP
The following option is supported:

.br
.ne 3
.TP 7
.B \-d
Fully discard the delta.
By default only the file content for the related
.B SID
is removed and the delta table entry is changed to the new type
.BR `R' .
When in discard mode, the delta table entry is also completely discarded.

.br
.ne 3
.TP 7
.BI \-r sid
Remove the version corresponding to the indicated 
.B SID
(delta).
This option is mandatory.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -q\fR[ nsedelim\fR]
Enable
.B NSE
mode.
If
.B NSE
mode is enabled, several
.B NSE
related extensions may be used.
In this release, the value of
.I nsedelim
is ignored.
.sp
This option is an undocumented
.B \s-1SUN\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs 
implementations.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-z
.ne 3
Enable CMF extensions for MR number handling.
.sp
This option is an undocumented
.B \s-1SUN\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs 
implementations.

.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -N bulk-spec
Processes a bulk of SCCS history files.
This option allows to do an efficient mass processing of SCCS history files.
.sp
The
.I bulk-spec
parameter is composed from an optional list of
.B flag
parameters followed by an optional
.B path
specifier.
.sp
The following flag types are supported:
.RS
.TP 10
.B ++
If
.I bulk-spec
is preceded by a
.BR `++' ,
.BR rmdel (1)
expects to process filenames that are prepended by a plus sign,
the related
.B SID
and another plus sign following the form:
.sp
.BI "    +" sid +\c
.I filename
.sp
This permits each file to be retrieved with an individual
.BR SID .
.TP
.B space
This is a placeholder dummy flag that allows to use a prepared string for
the 
.B \-N
option and to replace the space character by one of the supported flags
on demand.
.LP
.ne 4
The following path specifier types are supported:
.TP 10
.B \-N
The file name parameters to the
.B rmdel
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.B s.
to the last path name component.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.B \-Ns.
The file name parameters to the
.B rmdel
command are
.I s.filename
files.
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.B s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.BI \-N dir
The file name parameters to the
.B rmdel
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are put into directory
.IR dir ,
the names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.IB dir /s.
to the last path name component.
.TP
.BI \-N dir /s.
The file name parameters to the
.B rmdel
command are
.I s.filename
files in directory
.IR dir .
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.IB dir /s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
.PP
A typical value for
.I dir
is
.BR SCCS .
.PP
In order to overcome the limited number of
.BR exec (2)
arguments, it is recommended to use
.RB ` \(mi \&'
as the file name parameter for
.BR rmdel (1)
and to send a list of path names to
.BR stdin .
.PP
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
.RE

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-X extended\-options
Specify extended options. The argument
.I extended\-options
may be a comma separated list of extended option names.
.sp
The following extended options are supported, they may be abbreviated as long
ad the abbreviation is still unique. Options with parameter may not be
abbreviated.
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B 0
When reading filenames from
.BR stdin ,
triggered by a file name argument
.RB ` - ',
the filename separator is a
.B null byte
instead of a
.BR newline .
This allows to use long lists with arbitrary filenames.
.TP
.B help
Print a short online help for available options.
.PP
The
.B \-X
option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
.RE

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-version
.TP
.B \-\-version
.PD
Prints the
.B rmdel
version number string and exists.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR rmdel (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR rmdel (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP 5
.B 0
Successful completion.
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.

.SH FILES

.br
.ne 3
.TP 12
.BI p. file
permissions (lock) file for checked-out versions.
See
.BR sccs-get (1)
for a description of the layout of the
.BR p. file.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI s. file
.B SCCS
history file, see
.BR sccsfile (4).

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI x. file
temporary copy of the
.BR s. file;
renamed to the
.BR s. file
after completion

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI z. file
temporary lock file contains the binary process id in host byte order
followed by the host name

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B dump.core
If the file
.B dump.core
exists in the current directory and a fatal signal is received, a coredump
is initiated via
.BR abort (3).

.SH ATTRIBUTES

.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:

.LP

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).
.hy 14

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Use the SCCS
.B help
command for explanations (see 
.BR sccs-help (1)).

.SH AUTHORS
The
.B SCCS
suite was originally written by Marc J. Rochkind at Bell Labs in 1972.
Release 4.0 of
.BR SCCS ,
introducing new versions of the programs
.BR admin (1),
.BR get (1),
.BR prt (1),
and
.BR delta (1)
was published on February 18, 1977; it introduced the new text based
.B SCCS\ v4
history file format (previous
.B SCCS
releases used a binary history file format).
The
.B SCCS
suite
was later maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems.
Since 2006, the
.B SCCS
suite is maintained by J\*org Schilling.

.br
.ne 7
.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
A frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Sourceforge at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/
.LP
The download directory is:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/files/
.LP
Check for the
.B schily\-*.tar.bz2
archives.
.LP
Less frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/sccs/files/
.LP
Separate project informations for the
.B SCCS
project may be retrieved from:
.LP
.B
    http://sccs.sf.net
.br
