.\" @(#)sccs-fix.1	1.1 20/07/05 Copyr 2020 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for sccs-fix
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\" A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-fix 1 "2020/07/05" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sccs-fix \- remove the indicated delta from the SCCS history
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
sccs fix
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ file1 " .. " filen ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.sp .6
The
.B fix
subcommand
essentially removes the named delta, but it
is only able to revise a leaf delta.
It removes the indicated delta from the
.B SCCS
history, but leaves a working copy of the current version in the directory.
.LP
This is useful for fixing small compiler bugs,
for incorporating trivial updates for which no audit record
is needed, or for revising the delta commentary.
.B sccs fix
must be followed by a
.B -r
option, to specify the
.B SID
of the delta to remove.
The indicated delta must be the most recent (leaf) delta in its branch. Use
.B fix
with caution since it does not leave an audit trail of differences (although
the previous commentary is retained within the history file).


. \" .SH RETURNS
. \" .SH ERRORS
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-d
Fully discard the delta.
By default only the file content for the related
.B SID 
is removed and the delta table entry is changed to the new type
.BR `R' . 
When in discard mode, the delta table entry is also completely discarded.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-r sid
Specify the
.B SID
(see
.BR sccs-get (1)).


.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To fix release
.B 1.17 
iof the file
.B xec.c
in the current directory, call:
.IP
.B "sccs fix -r1.17 xec.c"
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR sccs-fix (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.B sccs fix
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .
.SH FILES

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.LP
.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySCHILYdeveloper-build-sccs
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-check (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-create (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-diffs (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-editor (1),
.BR sccs\-enter (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-info (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-ldiffs (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rcs2sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rename (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-tell (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4).
.hy 14
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH NOTES
.SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
.B sccs fix
was originally written by Eric Allman at UCB in 1980. It was later
maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems.
Since 2006, it is maintained by J\*org Schilling.

.br
.ne 7
.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
A frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Sourceforge at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/
.LP
The download directory is:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/files/
.LP
Check for the
.B schily\-*.tar.bz2
archives.
.LP
Less frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/sccs/files/
.LP
Separate project informations for the
.B SCCS
project may be retrieved from:
.LP
.B
    http://sccs.sf.net
.br
