.\" @(#)sccs-editor.1	1.1 20/06/29 Copyr 2020 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for sccs-editor
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\" A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-editor 1 "2022/10/06" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sccs-editor \- Edit a file whether or not it is controlled by SCCS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
sccs editor
.RI [ "editor options" ]
.IR file1 " .. " filen
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp .6
.LP
Edit a file whether or not is is controlled by SCCS.
If a file is controlled by SCCS and currently not checked out for editing,
the file is checked out for editing first and then edited.
If the file is not under control of SCCS, the editor is called directly.
.sp
The
.B SCCS_EDITOR
or
.B EDITOR
environment variable must be set appropriately in order to call a
custom editor.
.sp
A way to hide the fact that files need to checked out for editing first,
is to set
.B SCCS_EDITOR
and then alias the editor, e.g.:
.sp
   SCCS_EDITOR=ved
   alias ved='sccs editor'
.sp
Note that in order to minimize the side effects of calling the alias
.RB ` "ved *" ',
.B sccs editor
will call
.BR unget (1)
or
.B sccs unedit
on all files that have not been modified by the edit session and that
have not been checked out for editing before.
.sp
This subcommand is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.\" .SH RETURNS
.\" .SH ERRORS
.\" .SH OPTIONS

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To edit the file
.B xec.c
in the current directory call:
.IP
.B "sccs editor xec.c"
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (7)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR sccs-editor (1):
.BR EDITOR ,
.BR SCCS_EDITOR ,
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.B sccs editor
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .
.\" .SH FILES

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See 
.BR attributes (7)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.LP
.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySCHILYdeveloper-build-sccs
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-check (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-create (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-diffs (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-enter (1),
.BR sccs\-fix (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-info (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-ldiffs (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rcs2sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rename (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-tell (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (5),
.BR sccsfile (5).
.hy 14
.\" .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" .SH NOTES

.SH AUTHOR
.B sccs editor
was originally written by J\*org Schilling in 2011 and is now
maintained by the schilytools project authors.

.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
The source code for
.B SCCS
is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Codeberg at
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools .
.LP
The download directory is
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/releases .
