'\" te
.\" @(#)sccs-delta.1	1.58 20/09/18 Copyright 2007-2020 J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may use this file only in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-delta 1 "2020/09/18" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-delta, delta \- make a delta to an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.B /usr/ccs/bin/delta \c
.RB [ -dfhknopsz "] \c
.RB [ "-g \c
.I sid-list \c
| \c
.BI -g sid-list\c
]
.br
.RB "    [" "-m \c
.I mr-list \c
| \c
.BI -m mr-list\c
] \c
.RB [ -q\c
.RI [ nsedelim "]] \c
.RB [ "-r \c
.I sid \c
| \c
.BI  -r sid\c
]
.br
.RB "    [" "-y \c
.RI [ comment "]] \c
.RB [ "-D \c
.IR diff-file "]
.br
.RB "    [" -X\c
.IR extended-options "] "\c
.RB [ -N\c
.IR bulk-spec "] \c
.IR s.filename ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.LP
The
.B delta
utility checks in a record of the line-by-line differences made to a
checked-out version of a file under
.B SCCS
control. These changes are taken from the writable working copy that
was retrieved using the
.B SCCS get
command (see 
.BR sccs-get (1)).
This working copy does not have the
.RB ` s. '
prefix, and is also referred to as a
.BR g -file.

.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B delta
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory. Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any). The use of
.RB ` \(mi '
as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that the names of files are to be read from the
standard input, one
.BR s. file
per line (requires
.BR -y ,
and in some cases,
.BR -m ).

.LP
.B delta
may issue prompts on the standard output depending upon the options specified
and the flags that are set in the
.BR s. file
(see 
.BR sccs-admin (1),
and the
.B -m
and
.B -y
options below, for details).

.SH OPTIONS

.LP
The following options are supported:

.br
.ne 3
.TP 13
.B \-b
Use command 
.BR bdiff (1)
instead of 
.BR fsdiff (1).
This version of
.BR delta (1)
by default uses 
.BR fsdiff (1)
that is faster than
.BR bdiff (1)
and does not slow down as much with larger file size.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -d
Use command 
.BR diff (1)
instead of 
.BR bdiff (1).
Returns exit status
.B 2
instead of
.B 1
if the
.BI s. filename
argument is not specified.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -f
In NSE mode, this option allows one to enforce a delta even when no
.BI p. file
exists.
The new SID is assigned using the same rules as with
.BR "get -e" .
.sp
This option is usually used together with the
.B \-q
and
.B \-n
options.
.sp
This option is an undocumented
.B \s-1SUN\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs 
implementations.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -h
In NSE mode, this option allows one to use
.BR diffh (1)
for large files.
.sp
This option is currently defunct.
.sp
This option is an undocumented
.B \s-1SUN\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs 
implementations.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -k
Suppresses expansion of
.B ID
keywords when
.BR delta (1)
is doing an implicit
.BR get (1)
operation because
.BI  -N+ ...
was specified.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -n
Retain the edited
.BR g -file,
which is normally removed at the completion of processing.

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B -p
Display line-by-line differences (in 
.BR diff (1)
format) on the standard output.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -q\fR[ nsedelim\fR]
Enable
.B NSE
mode.
If
.B NSE
mode is enabled, several
.B NSE
related extensions may be used.
In this release, the value of
.I nsedelim
is ignored.
.sp
In NSE mode,
.B delta
behaves as if the
.B \-o
option was specified and never issues a warning about missing
.BR "id keyword" s.
.sp
This option is an undocumented
.B \s-1SUN\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs 
implementations.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -s
Silent.  Do not display warning or confirmation messages.  Do not
suppress error messages (which are written to standard error).

.br
.ne 3
.TP
\fB-g \fIsid-list\fR | \fB-g\fIsid-list\fR
Specify a list of deltas to omit when the file is accessed at the
.B SCCS
version
.B ID
.RB ( SID )
created by this delta.
This causes the file to be checked out later to differ
from the checked in file unless
.RB ` "get -i\c
.IR sid-list '
with the same
.I sid-list
is specified during checkout.
.I sid-list
is a comma-separated list of
.IR SID s.
To specify a range of deltas, use a
.RB ` \(mi '
separator instead of a comma, between two
.BR SID s
in the list.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
\fB-m \fImr-list\fR | \fB-m\fImr-list\fR
If the SCCS file has the
.B v
flag set (see 
.BR sccs-admin (1)),
you must supply one or more Modification Request (MR) numbers for the
new delta. When specifying more than one MR number on the command line,
.I mr-list
takes the form of a quoted, space-separated list. If
.B \-m
is not used and the standard input is a terminal,
.B delta
prompts with
.RB ` MRs? " '
for the list (before issuing the
.RB ` comments? " '
prompt). If the
.B v
flag in the
.BR s. file
has a value, it is taken to be the name of a program to validate the
MR numbers. If that validation program returns a non-zero exit status,
.B delta
terminates without checking in the changes.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-o
Use the original time of the edited file for the delta time
when applying the delta.
In NSE mode this is the default behavior.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
\fB-r \fIsid\fR | \fB-r\fIsid\fR
When two or more versions are checked out, specify the version to
check in. This
.B SID
value can be either the
.B SID
specified on the
.B get
command line, or the
.B SID
of the new version to be checked in as reported by
.BR get .
A diagnostic results if the specified
.B SID
is ambiguous, or if one is required but not supplied.
.ne 2
.TP
\fB-y\fR[\fIcomment\fR]
Supply a comment for the delta table (version log). A null comment is accepted,
and produces an empty commentary in the log. If
.B \-y
is not specified and the standard input is a terminal,
.B delta
prompts with
.RB ` comments? " '.
An unescaped NEWLINE terminates the comment.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-z
.ne 3
Enable CMF extensions for MR number handling.
.sp
This option is an undocumented
.B \s-1SUN\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs 
implementations.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-C dir
Specify the base directory for the
.B g-file
relative to the current working directory.
By default, the
.B g-file
is searched for in the current directory (independent from
the location of the 
.BI s. file\fR.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-D diff-file
Provide a file with prepared diff output to
.BR delta (1).
If this option is present,
.BR delta (1)
will not get the previous file content and call
.BR diff (1)
on the previous file content and the current file content,
but read the
.I diff-file
instead.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -N bulk-spec
Processes a bulk of SCCS history files.
This option allows one to do an efficient mass processing of SCCS history files.
.sp
The
.I bulk-spec
parameter is composed from an optional list of
.B flag
parameters followed by an optional
.B path
specifier.
.sp
The following flag types are supported:
.RS
.TP 10
.B +
If
.I bulk-spec
is preceded by a
.BR `+' ,
.BR delta (1)
removes the original g-files and replaces them by file content that is
retrieved by a
.BR get (1)
operation on the related
.BI s. file\fR.
This option is ignored if
.B \-n
has been specified.
.TP
.B space
This is a placeholder dummy flag that allows one to use a prepared string for
the 
.B \-N
option and to replace the space character by one of the supported flags
on demand.
.LP
The following path specifier types are supported:
.TP 10
.B \-N
The file name parameters to the
.B delta
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.B s.
to the last path name component.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.B \-Ns.
The file name parameters to the
.B delta
command are
.I s.filename
files.
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.B s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.BI \-N dir
The file name parameters to the
.B delta
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are put into directory
.IR dir ,
the names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.IB dir /s.
to the last path name component.
.TP
.BI \-N dir /s.
The file name parameters to the
.B delta
command are
.I s.filename
files in directory
.IR dir .
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.IB dir /s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
.PP
A typical value for
.I dir
is
.BR SCCS .
.PP
In order to overcome the limited number of
.BR exec (2)
arguments, it is recommended to use
.RB ` \(mi \&'
as the file name parameter for
.BR delta (1)
and to send a list of path names to
.BR stdin .
.PP
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
.RE

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-X extended\-options
Specify extended options. The argument
.I extended\-options
may be a comma separated list of extended option names.
.sp
The following extended options are supported, they may be abbreviated as long
as the abbreviation is still unique:
.sp
.RS
.TP
.BI date= datetime
Allows to overwrite the usual methods to determine the
time stamp used for a new delta. This is needed
to e.g. convert a historic SCCS history into a
new project oriented bundle history.
The format of the
.I datetime
argument is the same as for cutoff times but nanoseconds and
a time zone offset are permitted in addition.
.TP
.BI gpath= g-path
Specify a different path to the
.I g-file
instead of deriving the path from the
.B s-file
using an algorithm that may not apply in a specific case.
This option is needed to manage the 
.B changeset
file.
.TP
.B nobulk
Disables the
.B \-N
(bulkmode) filename translations.
This is needed to disable a
.B \-N
option that is automatically added by
.BR sccs (1)
in NewMode and would otherwise make it impossible to deal with the
changeset file 
.RB  `` .sccs/SCCS/s.changeset ''.
.TP
.BI mail= address
Set
.I address
as e-mail address in the delta table for the
.I SID
just created.
.TP
.B prepend
Prepend the current content of the
.B g-file
to the previous content of that file.
With this option, there is no need to unpack the old reference version
and to diff the current version against that old version. This causes
a major performance win that is used for updating the
.BR sccschangeset (4)
file when in
.BR "project mode" .
.TP
.BI user= name
Use a different user name for the
.B programmer
field in the delta table.
By the default, the
.B logname
is used for this field.
Using a different name may however later deny the permission
to modify a delta by programs like
.BR cdc (1).
.TP
.B 0
When reading filenames from
.BR stdin ,
triggered by a file name argument
.RB ` - ',
the filename separator is a
.B null byte
instead of a
.BR newline .
This allows one to use long lists with arbitrary filenames.
.TP
.B help
Print a short online help for available options.
.PP
The
.B \-X
option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
.RE

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-version
.TP
.B \-\-version
.PD
Prints the
.B delta
version number string and exists.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR delta (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR delta (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.br
.ne 6
.SH STDOUT
.sp
.LP
If the
.B \-s
option was not specified,
.B delta
prints statistics about file activities in the following format:
.sp
.RS
.I new-sid
.br
.I nn
inserted
.br
.I nn
deleted
.br
.I nn
unchanged
.br
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP 5
.B 0
Successful completion.
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred and the
.B \-d
option had not been specified.
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B 2
An error occurred, the
.B \-d
option had been specified, and the
.I s.filename
argument was not specified.

.SH FILES

.br
.ne 2
.TP 12
.BI d. file
temporary file created by the
.BR delta (1)
program with the content of the previous version, 
used to compute differences to the current version

.br
.ne 2
.TP 12
.BI e. file
temporary file to hold an uuencoded version of the
.B g-file
in case of an encoded history file

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BI p. file
permission (lock) file for checked-out versions.
See
.BR sccs-get (1)
for a description of the layout of the
.BR p. file.

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BI q. file
temporary copy of the
.BR p. file;
renamed to the
.BR p. file
after completion

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BI s. file
.B SCCS
history file, see
.BR sccsfile (4).

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BI x. file
temporary copy of the 
.BR s. file; 
renamed to the 
.BR s. file 
after completion 

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BI z. file
temporary lock file contains the binary process id in host byte order
followed by the host name

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B dump.core
If the file
.B dump.core
exists in the current directory and a fatal signal is received, a coredump
is initiated via
.BR abort (3).

.SH ATTRIBUTES

.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.SS /usr/ccs/bin/delta

.LP

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-check (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-create (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-diffs (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-editor (1),
.BR sccs\-enter (1),
.BR sccs\-fix (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-info (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-ldiffs (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rcs2sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rename (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-tell (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR fsdiff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).
.hy 14

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.LP
Use the
.B SCCS help
command for explanations (see 
.BR sccs-help (1)).

.SH WARNINGS

.LP
Lines beginning with an
.B ASCII SOH
character (binary 001) cannot be placed in the
.B SCCS
file if the 
.B SCCS 
v4 history file format is used, unless the
.B SOH
is escaped. This character has special meaning to
.B SCCS
(see 
.BR sccsfile (4))
and produces an error in
.B SCCS
v4 mode.
.B SCCS
v6 automatically escapes such characters and thus allows
to use
.B ASCII SOH
at any place in a file.
.LP
If 
.BR delta (1)
is used in force mode (using
.RB ` "delta -q -f -n s.\fIfile" '),
using the option 
.BI -g sid-list
in addition will result in unexpected behavior.
This is because the
.I file
content used for
.BR delta (1),
differs from what is extracted using
.BR get (1).
As in force delta mode,
.BR get (1)
is usually not used, the next delta will revert the effect of the
.RB ` "delta -g..." '
call.

.SH BUGS
None

.SH AUTHORS
The
.B SCCS
suite was originally written by Marc J. Rochkind at Bell Labs in 1972.
Release 4.0 of
.BR SCCS ,
introducing new versions of the programs
.BR admin (1),
.BR get (1),
.BR prt (1),
and
.BR delta (1)
was published on February 18, 1977; it introduced the new text based
.B SCCS\ v4
history file format (previous
.B SCCS
releases used a binary history file format).
The
.B SCCS
suite
was later maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems.
Since 2006, the
.B SCCS
suite is maintained by J\*org Schilling.

.br
.ne 7
.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
A frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Sourceforge at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/
.LP
The download directory is:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/files/
.LP
Check for the
.B schily\-*.tar.bz2
archives.
.LP
Less frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/sccs/files/
.LP
Separate project informations for the
.B SCCS
project may be retrieved from:
.LP
.B
    http://sccs.sf.net
.br
