'\" te
.\" @(#)sccs-val.1	1.32 18/12/18 Copyright 2007-2018 J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may use this file only in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-val 1 "2018/12/18" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-val, val \- validate an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.BR /usr/ccs/bin/val " -
.fi
.LP
.nf
.B /usr/ccs/bin/val \c
.RB [ -T "] [" -s\c
.RB "] [" "-m \c
.I name\c
.RB "] [" -r\c
.I sid\c
.RB "] [" "-v" ]
.br
.RB "    [" "-y \c
.IR type "] ["\c
.B -N\c
.IR bulk-spec "] \c
s.filename ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B val
utility determines if the specified
.BR s. files
meet the characteristics specified by the indicated arguments.
.LP
.B val
has a special argument,
.RB ` \(mi ',
which reads the standard input until the end-of-file condition is detected.
Each line read is independently processed as if it were a command line
argument list.
.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
command line argument,
the
.B val
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory. Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any).
.LP
.B val
generates diagnostic messages on the standard output for each command line
and file processed and also returns a single 8\(mibit code upon exit
as described below.
.LP
The 8-bit code returned by
.B val
is a disjunction of the possible errors, that is, it can be interpreted
as a bit string where (moving from left to right) the bits set are
interpreted as follows:
.LP
.in +2
.nf
bit 0 (value 128) = missing file argument
bit 1 (value  64) = unknown or duplicate option
bit 2 (value  32) = corrupted s.file
bit 3 (value  16) = can not open file or file not in s.file format
bit 4 (value   8) = the SCCS delta ID (SID) is invalid or ambiguous
bit 5 (value   4) = the SID does not exist
bit 6 (value   2) = mismatch between %\&Y% and -y argument
bit 7 (value   1) = mismatch between %\&M% and -m argument
.fi
.in -2
.LP
.B val
can process two or more files on a given command line, and in turn can
process multiple command lines (when reading the standard input).
In these cases, an aggregate code is returned which is the logical
.B OR
of the codes generated for each command line and file processed.

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.br
.ne 2
.TP 13
.B \-h
Check 
SID specific checksums that are available with
.B "SCCS v6"
history files.
This may slow down the process significantly in case that
there are many deltas in a SCCS history file.
.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BI \-m " name
Compares
.I name
with the 
.B "%\&M%"
ID keyword in the
.BR s. file.
.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BI \-r sid
Checks to see if the indicated
.B SID
is ambiguous, invalid, or absent from the
.BR s. file.
.br
.ne 2
.TP
.B \-s
Silent.  Suppresses the normal error or warning messages.
.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BI \-v
Check the version of the SCCS history file and print it.
No other checks except for the magic number are attempted
in case that
.B \-v
has been specified.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BI \-y " type
Compares
.I type
with the 
.B "%\&Y%"
ID keyword.

.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -N bulk-spec
Processes a bulk of SCCS history files.
This option allows to do an efficient mass processing of SCCS history files.
.sp
The
.I bulk-spec
parameter is composed from an optional list of
.B flag
parameters followed by an optional
.B path
specifier.
.sp
The following flag types are supported:
.RS
.TP 10
.B none
.LP
.ne 4
The following path specifier types are supported:
.TP 10
.B \-N
The file name parameters to the
.B val
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.B s.
to the last path name component.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.B \-Ns.
The file name parameters to the
.B val
command are
.I s.filename
files.
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.B s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.BI \-N dir
The file name parameters to the
.B val
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are put into directory
.IR dir ,
the names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.IB dir /s.
to the last path name component.
.TP
.BI \-N dir /s.
The file name parameters to the
.B val
command are
.I s.filename
files in directory
.IR dir .
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.IB dir /s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
.PP
A typical value for
.I dir
is
.BR SCCS .
.PP
In order to overcome the limited number of
.BR exec (2)
arguments, it is recommended to use
.RB ` \(mi \&'
as the file name parameter for
.BR val (1)
and to send a list of path names to
.BR stdin .
.PP
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
.RE

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.B \-T
Trace. Print extra debug messages.
This disables the silent mode.
When in debug mode, extra tests are enabled for:
.RS
.TP 12
.B statistics
The statistics line in the SCCS history file is written but not used.
This is why this test is only enabled in debug mode and why a defective
statistics line does not affect the exit code.
The test still only checks for semantic correctness but not for correct
values (e.g. whether the number of inserted lines is correct).
.TP
.B time stamps
The time stamps in the SCCS history file are only used when a cut-off time
was specified. This test checks for monotonic growing time stamps. A warning
is issued if time stamps go backwards, but this does not affect the exit code.
.LP
For a complete consistency check, it is recommended to run
.B val
in debug mode to check for all problems.
.LP
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
.RE

.ne 3
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-version
.TP
.B \-\-version
.PD
Prints the
.B val
version number string and exists.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR val (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR val (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP 5
.B 0
Successful completion.
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.TP 12
.BI s. file
.B SCCS
history file, see
.BR sccsfile (4).

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.LP
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).
.hy 14

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Use the SCCS
.B help
command for explanations (see 
.BR sccs-help (1)).

.SH AUTHORS
The
.B SCCS
suite was originally written by Marc J. Rochkind at Bell Labs in 1972.
Release 4.0 of
.BR SCCS ,
introducing new versions of the programs
.BR admin (1),
.BR get (1),
.BR prt (1),
and
.BR delta (1)
was published on February 18, 1977; it introduced the new text based
.B SCCS\ v4
history file format (previous
.B SCCS
releases used a binary history file format).
The
.B SCCS
suite
was later maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems.
Since 2006, the
.B SCCS
suite is maintained by J\*org Schilling.

.br
.ne 7
.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
A frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Sourceforge at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/
.LP
The download directory is:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/files/
.LP
Check for the
.B schily\-*.tar.bz2
archives.
.LP
Less frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/sccs/files/
.LP
Separate project informations for the
.B SCCS
project may be retrieved from:
.LP
.B
    http://sccs.sf.net
.br
