'\" te
.\" @(#)sccs-prt.1	1.28 20/08/05 Copyright 2007-2020 J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 1990, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may use this file only in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-prt 1 "2020/08/05" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-prt, prt \- display delta table information from an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.B "/usr/ccs/bin/prt \c
.RB [ -abdefistu "] \c
.RB [ -c\c
.IR date-time "] \c
.RB [ -r\c
.IR date-time ]
.RB "    [" -y\c
.IR sid "] [\c
.B \-X\c
.IR extended-options "] \c
.RB [ -N\c
.IR bulk-spec "] \c
.IR s.filename ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.LP
.B prt
prints selected portions of an
.B SCCS
file.  By default, it prints the delta table (version log).
.LP
The output is directly based on text data from the
.BR s. files
without conversion.

.LP
If a directory name is used in place of the
.I s.filename
argument, the
.B prt
command applies to all
.BR s. files
in that directory. Unreadable
.BR s. files
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any). The use of
.RB ` \(mi '
as the
.I s.filename
argument indicates that the names
of files are to be read from the standard input, one
.BR s. file
per line.

.SH OPTIONS

.LP
If any option other than
.BR -y ,
.BR -c ,
or
.B -r
is supplied, the name of each file being processed (preceded by one
.B NEWLINE
and followed by two
.B NEWLINE
characters) appears above its contents.

.LP
If none of the
.BR -u ,
.BR -f ,
.BR -t ,
or
.B -b
options are used,
.B -d
is assumed.
.BR -s ,
.B -i
are mutually
exclusive, as are
.B -c
and
.BR -r .

.br
.ne 3
.TP 13
.B -a
Display log entries for all deltas, including those marked as removed.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -b
Print the body of the
.BR s. file.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -d
Print delta table entries.  This is the default.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -e
Everything.  This option implies
.BR \-d ,
.BR \-i ,
.BR \-u ,
.BR \-f ,
and
.BR \-t .

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -f
Print the flags of each named
.BR s. file.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -i
Print the serial numbers of included, excluded, and ignored deltas.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -s
Print only the first line of the delta table entries; that is,
only up to the statistics.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -t
Print the descriptive text contained in the
.BR s. file.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B -u
Print the user-names and/or numerical group
.B IDs
of users allowed to make deltas.

.br
.ne 
.TP
.BI -c date-time
Exclude delta table entries that are specified cutoff date and time. Each
entry is printed as a single line,
preceded by the name of the
.B SCCS
file.  This format (also produced by
.BR \-r ,
and
.BR \-y )
makes it easy to sort multiple delta
tables in chronological order. When both
.B \-y
and
.BR \-c ,
or
.B \-y
and
.B \-r
are supplied,
.B prt
stops printing when the first of the
two conditions is met.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -r date-time
Exclude delta table entries that are newer than the specified
cutoff date and time.

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -y sid
Exclude delta table entries made prior to the
.B SID
specified.  If no delta in the
table has the specified SID, the entire table is printed.  If no
.B SID
is specified, the most recent delta is printed.

.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -N bulk-spec
Processes a bulk of SCCS history files.
This option allows one to do an efficient mass processing of SCCS history files.
.sp
The
.I bulk-spec
parameter is composed from an optional list of
.B flag
parameters followed by an optional
.B path
specifier.
.sp
The following flag types are supported:
.RS
.TP 10
.B none
.LP
.ne 4
The following path specifier types are supported:
.TP 10
.B \-N
The file name parameters to the
.B prt
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.B s.
to the last path name component.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.B \-Ns.
The file name parameters to the
.B prt
command are
.I s.filename
files.
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.B s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.BI \-N dir
The file name parameters to the
.B prt
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are put into directory
.IR dir ,
the names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.IB dir /s.
to the last path name component.
.TP
.BI \-N dir /s.
The file name parameters to the
.B prt
command are
.I s.filename
files in directory
.IR dir .
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.IB dir /s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
.PP
A typical value for
.I dir
is
.BR SCCS .
.PP
In order to overcome the limited number of
.BR exec (2)
arguments, it is recommended to use
.RB ` \(mi \&'
as the file name parameter for
.BR prt (1)
and to send a list of path names to
.BR stdin .
.PP
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
.RE

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-X extended\-options
Specify extended options. The argument
.I extended\-options
may be a comma separated list of extended option names.
.sp
The following extended options are supported, they may be abbreviated as long
ad the abbreviation is still unique. Options with parameter may not be
abbreviated.
.sp
.RS
.TP
.B 0
When reading filenames from
.BR stdin ,
triggered by a file name argument
.RB ` - ',
the filename separator is a
.B null byte
instead of a
.BR newline .
This allows one to use long lists with arbitrary filenames.
.TP
.B help
Print a short online help for available options.
.PP
The
.B \-X
option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
.RE

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-version
.TP
.B \-\-version
.PD
Prints the
.B prt
version number string and exists.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.SH USAGE

.SS Output Format

.LP
The following format is used to print those portions of the
.BR s. file
that are specified by the various options.

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B NEWLINE
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Type of delta
.RB ( D
or
.BR R )
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B SPACE
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B SCCS
delta
.B ID
(SID)
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B TAB
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Date and time of creation in the form:
.IB yy / mm / dd
.IB hh / mm / ss
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B SPACE
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Username the delta's creator
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B TAB
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Serial number of the delta
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B SPACE
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Predecessor delta's serial number
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B TAB
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Line-by-line change statistics in the form:
.IB inserted / deleted /  unchanged
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
.B NEWLINE
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
List of included deltas, followed by a
.B NEWLINE
(only if there were any such deltas and the
.B -i
options was used)
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
List of excluded deltas, followed by a
.B NEWLINE
(only if there were any such deltas and the
.B -i
options was used)
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
List of ignored deltas, followed by a
.B NEWLINE
(only if there were any such deltas and the
.B -i
options was used)
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
List of modification requests (MRs), followed by a
.B NEWLINE
(only if any
.B MR
numbers were supplied).
.RE

.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Lines of the delta commentary (if any), followed by a
.BR NEWLINE .
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Examples of
.BR prt .

.LP
The following command:

.LP
.B "example% /usr/ccs/bin/prt -y program.c

.LP
produces a one-line display of the delta table entry for the
most recent version:

.LP
.B s.program.c:
.sp
.B "D 1.6   88/07/06 21:39:39 username 5 4   00159/00080/00636
.br
\&.\|.\|.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR prt (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR prt (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP 5
.B 0
Successful completion.
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.TP 15
.BI s. file
.B SCCS
history file, see
.BR sccsfile (4).

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.B dump.core
If the file
.B dump.core
exists in the current directory and a fatal signal is received, a coredump
is initiated via
.BR abort (3).

.SH ATTRIBUTES

.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following
attributes:

.LP

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-check (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-create (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-diffs (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-editor (1),
.BR sccs\-enter (1),
.BR sccs\-fix (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-info (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-ldiffs (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-rcs2sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rename (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-tell (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).
.hy 14

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.LP
Use the
.B SCCS help
command for explanations (see 
.BR sccs-help (1)).

.SH AUTHORS
The
.B SCCS
suite was originally written by Marc J. Rochkind at Bell Labs in 1972.
Release 4.0 of
.BR SCCS ,
introducing new versions of the programs
.BR admin (1),
.BR get (1),
.BR prt (1),
and
.BR delta (1)
was published on February 18, 1977; it introduced the new text based
.B SCCS\ v4
history file format (previous
.B SCCS
releases used a binary history file format).
The
.B SCCS
suite
was later maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems.
Since 2006, the
.B SCCS
suite is maintained by J\*org Schilling.

.br
.ne 7
.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
A frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Sourceforge at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/
.LP
The download directory is:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/files/
.LP
Check for the
.B schily\-*.tar.bz2
archives.
.LP
Less frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/sccs/files/
.LP
Separate project information for the
.B SCCS
project may be retrieved from:
.LP
.B
    http://sccs.sf.net
.br
