.\" @(#)sccs-rename.1	1.2 20/07/05 Copyr 2020 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for sccs-rename
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\" A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-rename 1 "2022/10/06" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sccs-rename \- rename files in the project list for the next commit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
sccs rename
.RI [ options ]
.I source destination
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.sp .6
The
.B rename
subcommand marks the file
.I source
to be renamed to
.I destination
with the next commit.
.LP
This subcommand is a
.B project
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
. \" .SH RETURNS
. \" .SH ERRORS
.SH OPTIONS
.LP

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To rename the file
.B xec.c
to
.B cmd.c
call:
.IP
.B "sccs rename xec.c cmd.c"
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (7)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR sccs-rename (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.B sccs rename
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .
.SH FILES

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See 
.BR attributes (7)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.LP
.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySCHILYdeveloper-build-sccs
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-check (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-create (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-diffs (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-editor (1),
.BR sccs\-enter (1),
.BR sccs\-fix (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-info (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-ldiffs (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rcs2sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-tell (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (5),
.BR sccsfile (5).
.hy 14
.\" .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" .SH NOTES

.SH BUGS
.PP
None currently known.
.PP
Mail bugs and suggestions to
.B schilytools@mlists.in-berlin.de
or open a ticket at
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/issues .
.PP
The mailing list archive may be found at:
.PP
.nf
.BR https://mlists.in-berlin.de/mailman/listinfo/schilytools-mlists.in-berlin.de .
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
.B sccs rename
was originally written by J\*org Schilling in 2015 and is now
maintained by the schilytools project authors.

.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
The source code for
.B sccs
is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Codeberg at
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools .
.LP
The download directory is
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/releases .
