'\" te
.\" @(#)sccs-rcs2sccs.1	1.17 20/08/05 Copyright 2011-2020 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for sccscvt
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\" A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-rcs2sccs 1 "2020/08/05" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sccs-rcs2sccs, rcs2sccs \- convert RCS files into SCCS files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B /usr/ccs/bin/rcs2sccs
.RB [ \-rm ]
.RB [ \-V6 ]
.RI [ file... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B rcs2sccs
converts 
.B RCS
history files into 
.B SCCS 
history files.
If a list of files is specified, this list is converted.
If no file arguments are specified, all RCS files in the current directory
are converted.
.LP
This program is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.br
.ne 2
.TP 13
.B \-rm
Remove the 
.B RCS
history files on success.
.br
.ne 2
.TP 13
.B \-V6
Convert into SCCS v6 history files.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-version
.TP
.B \-\-version
.PD
Prints the
.B rcs2sccs
version number string and exists.
.br
.ne 2
.TP 13
.B \-help
Print a short usage overview and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES


.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR rcs2sccs (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR rcs2sccs (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.TP 13
.B /tmp/rcs2sccs_*
temporary files

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.LP
.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-check (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-create (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-diffs (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-editor (1),
.BR sccs\-enter (1),
.BR sccs\-fix (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-info (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-ldiffs (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rename (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-tell (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).
.hy 14

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Use the SCCS
.B help
command for explanations of messages. See
.BR sccs-help (1).

.SH NOTES
.LP
While
.B RCS
records time stamps in GMT,
.B SCCS
uses local time.
When a SCCS v6 history file is created,
.B rcs2sccs
converts the time stamps to SCCS GMT time stamps with GMT offset 
+0000 which can co-exist with time stamps in local time.
.LP
When a SCCS v4 history file is created,
converting from RCS to SCCS is done by literally transforming the
time stamps and thus keeping the GMT time base which may differ from
local time.
If you like to convert the time stamps in the resulting SCCS files
to a local timebase, call:
.sp
.B
    TZ=GMT sccs cvt -V6 SCCS
.br
.B
    sccs cvt -V4 -d SCCS
.LP
But note that this conversion may not be correctly converted back to GMT
in case that time stamps exists in the 
.I overlapping
period of wall clock time that appears when switching from DST to non-DST.
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
The original code is from around 1990 from the net from an author identified 
as "kenc".
This version is maintained by J\*org Schilling.

.br
.ne 7
.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
A frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Sourceforge at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/
.LP
The download directory is:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/files/
.LP
Check for the
.B schily\-*.tar.bz2
archives.
.LP
Less frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/sccs/files/
.LP
Separate project informations for the
.B SCCS
project may be retrieved from:
.LP
.B
    http://sccs.sf.net
.br
