.\" @(#)sccscvt.1	1.9 14/09/15 Copyright 2011-2014 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for sccscvt
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\" A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccscvt 1 "2014/09/15" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sccscvt \- convert history files between SCCS v4 and SCCS v6
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
sccscvt
.B "[ options ]"
.I file1 .. filen
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Sccscvt
converts
.B SCCS v4
history files (introduced in February 1977) into
.B SCCS v6
history files (introduced in August 2011) and vice versa.
.LP
The first line, containing the SCCS magic number and the checksum is converted to the
format that is appropriate. The time format in the delta table is converted by either
removing the SCCS v6 extensions or by adding time zone information by assuming that all
time stamps are from the local time zone. When converting from SCCS v6 to SCCs v4, the
enhanced time stamp data is retained as the first delta comment line in a delta block.
.LP
SID specific SCCS v6 enhancements are converted into special delta comment to prevent
information loss when converting to SCCS v4.
.LP
The SCCS v6 enhancements that are between the SCCS v4 flags indicated by
.B ^Af
and the SCCS comment block that is bracketed between
.B ^At
and
.B ^AT
are untouched as these enhancements are not flagged by historic SCCS versions
and retained by historic SCCS versions when a history file is modified.
.LP
If a file argument refers to a directory, the directory is scanned
for file names that start with ``s.'' and examines all these files.
. \" .SH RETURNS
. \" .SH ERRORS
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
.B \-d
When converting from SCCS v6 to SCCS v4,
discard the extended SCCS v6 meta data instead of converting it into special degenerated
delta comments.
.TP
.B \-k
.TP
.B \-keep
Keep the original history file as
.BI o. file\fR.
When this option is missing, the original file is replaced by the converted file.
.TP
.B \-V4
Convert a
.B SCCS v6
history file into a
.B SCCS v4
history file.
.TP
.B \-V6
Convert a
.B SCCS v4
history file into a
.B SCCS v6
history file.
.TP
.B \-help
Prints a short summary of the 
.B sccscvt
options and exists.
.TP
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-version
Prints the
.B sccscvt
version number string and exists.
.\" .SH EXAMPLES

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR sccscvt (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR sccscvt (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP 5
.B 0
Successful completion.
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B -1
A wrong option or parameter was specified.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI s. file
history file
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI o. file
saved original version of the history file
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI x. file
temporary copy of the
.BR s. file;
renamed to the
.BR s. file
after completion.

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI z. file
temporary lock file contains the binary process id in host byte order
followed by the host name
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-comb (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs-unget (1),
.BR sccs-val (1),
.BR sccscvt (1),
.BR sccslog (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR changeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.SH NOTES
If a SCCS history file is converted from SCCS v4 to SCCS v6 and there is no
retained SCCS v6 timestamp information in the delta comment, it may be a good
idea to manually correct time zone information.
.SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
.BR sccscvt (1)
was origininally written by J\*org Schilling in 2011 and is still
maintained by J\*org Schilling.
