.\" @(#)sccs-diffs.1	1.1 20/07/05 Copyr 2020 J. Schilling
.\" Manual page for sccs-diffs
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
.\" (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
.\" with the License.
.\"
.\" See the file CDDL.Schily.txt in this distribution for details.
.\" A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file CDDL.Schily.txt from this distribution.
.\"
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-diffs 1 "2022/08/14" "J\*org Schilling" "Schily\'s USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sccs-diffs \-  compare the working copy of a file with the SCCS history
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B
sccs diffs
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ file1 " .. " filen ]
.br
.B
sccs ldiffs
.RI [ options ]
.RI [ file1 " .. " filen ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.sp .6
The
.B diffs
subcommand compares (in
.BR diff (1)
format) the working copy of a file that is checked out for editing,
with a version from the
.B SCCS
history.
.B sccs diffs
uses the most recent checked-in version by default. The
.B diffs
subcommand accepts the same options as
.BR diff .
.sp
Any
.BR -r ,
.BR -c ,
.BR -i ,
.BR -x ,
and
.B -t
options are passed to subcommand
.BR get .
A
.B -C
option is passed to
.B diff
as
.BR -c .
An
.B -I
option is passed
to
.B diff
as
.BR -i .
.sp
The
.B diffs
subcommand calls the
.SM UNIX
.BR diff (1)
command that is delivered with the
.SM SCCS
packet. If you like to call the local
.BR diff (1)
command that is in your
.BR PATH,
use the
.B ldiffs
subcommand.
. \" .SH RETURNS
. \" .SH ERRORS
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
All
.BR diff (1)
options are supported and the following SCCS options:
.LP
.br
.ne 3
.HP
.BI -c " date-time"\c
 | \c
.BI -c date-time
.br
Use the most recent version checked in before the indicated
date and time for comparison.
.I date-time
takes the form:
.IR yy [ mm [ dd [\c
.IR hh [ mm [ ss ]\|]\|]\|]\|].
Omitted units default to their maximum possible values; that is
.B -c7502
is equivalent to
.BR -c750228235959 .

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -r\fR[ sid\fR]
Use the version corresponding to the indicated
.B SID
(delta).
.sp
See
.BR sccs-get (1)
formore information on the SID.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
To compare the file
.B xec.c
in the current directory with te state in the SCCS history call:
.IP
.B "sccs diffs xec.c"
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR sccs-diffs (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.B sccs diffs
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .
.\" .SH FILES

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.LP
.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySCHILYdeveloper-build-sccs
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-check (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-create (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-editor (1),
.BR sccs\-enter (1),
.BR sccs\-fix (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-info (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rcs2sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rename (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-tell (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4).
.hy 14
.\" .SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" .SH NOTES
.SH BUGS
.PP
None currently known.
.PP
Mail bugs and suggestions to
.B schilytools@mlists.in-berlin.de
or open a ticket at
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/issues .
.PP
The mailing list archive may be found at:
.PP
.nf
.BR https://mlists.in-berlin.de/mailman/listinfo/schilytools-mlists.in-berlin.de .
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
.B sccs diffs
was originally written by Eric Allman at UCB in 1980. It was later
maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems. Since 2006,
it has been maintained by J\*org Schilling and the schilytools project
authors.

.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
The source code for
.B SCCS
is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Codeberg at
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools .
.LP
The download directory is
.LP
.BR https://codeberg.org/schilytools/schilytools/releases .
