'\" te
.\" @(#)sccs-cdc.1	1.13 14/09/15 Copyright 2007-2014 J. Schilling
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-cdc 1 "2014/09/15" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-cdc, cdc \- change the delta commentary of an SCCS delta
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.B "/usr/ccs/bin/cdc \c
.BI -r "sid \c"
.RB [ -m\c
.IR mr-list "] \c
.RB [ -q\c
.RI [ nsedelim "]] \c
.br
.RB "    [" -y [\c
.IR comment "]] \c
.RB [ -z "] \c
.IR s.filename ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.LP
\fBcdc\fR annotates the delta commentary for the \fBSCCS\fR delta ID (SID) specified by the \fB-r\fR
option in each named \fBs.\fRfile.
.sp

.LP
If the \fBv\fR flag is set in the \fBs.\fRfile,
you can also use \fBcdc\fR to update the Modification Request
(MR) list.
.sp

.LP
If you checked in the delta, or, if you own the file and directory
and have write permission, you can use \fBcdc\fR to annotate
the commentary.
.sp

.LP
Rather than replacing the existing commentary, \fBcdc\fR
inserts the new comment you supply, followed by a line of the form:
.sp

.LP
\fB*** CHANGED ***\fR \fIyy\fR\fB/\fR\fImm\fR\fB/\fR\fBdd\fR \fIhh\fR\fB/\fR\fImm\fR\fB/\fR\fIss\fR \fIusername\fR
.sp

.LP
above the existing commentary.
.sp

.LP
If a directory is named as the \fIs.filename\fR
argument, the \fBcdc\fR command applies to all \fBs.\fRfiles in that directory. Unreadable \fBs.\fRfiles
produce an error; processing continues with the next file (if any). If `\fB\(mi\fR' is given as the \fIs.filename\fR
argument, each line of the standard input is taken as the name of an \fBSCCS\fR history file to be processed, and the \fB-m\fR and \fB-y\fR options must be used.
.sp

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 3
.TP 13
.BI \-r sid
Specify the \fBSID\fR of the delta to change.
.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-m mr-list
Specify one or more MR numbers to add or delete. When specifying
more than one MR on the command line, \fImr-list\fR
takes the form of a quoted, space-separated list. To delete an MR number,
precede it with a \fB!\fR character (an empty \fBMR\fR list has no effect). A list of deleted \fBMRs\fR is placed in the comment section of the delta commentary.
If \fB-m\fR is not used and the standard input is a terminal, \fBcdc\fR prompts with \fBMRs?\fR for the list (before
issuing the \fBcomments?\fR prompt). \fB-m\fR is
only useful when the \fBv\fR flag is set in the \fBs.\fRfile. If that flag has a value, it is taken to be the name of
a program to validate the MR numbers.  If that validation program returns
a non-zero exit status, \fBcdc\fR terminates and the delta
commentary remains unchanged.
.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-V
Prints the
.B cdc
version number string and exists.

.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.BI \-y [comment]
Use \fIcomment\fR as the annotation
in the delta commentary. The previous comments are retained; the \fIcomment\fR is added along with a notation that the commentary
was changed. A  null \fIcomment\fR leaves the commentary
unaffected. If \fB-y\fR is not specified and the standard input
is a terminal, \fBcdc\fR prompts with \fBcomments?\fR
for the text of the notation to be added.  An unescaped \fBNEWLINE\fR character terminates the annotation text.

.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -q\fR[ nsedelim\fR]
Enable
.B NSE
mode.
If
.B NSE
mode is enabled, several
.B NSE
related extensions may be used.
In this release, the value of
.I nsedelim
is ignored.
.sp
This option is an undocumented
.B \s-1SUN\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs 
implementations.

.ne 3
.TP
.B \-z
.ne 3
Enable CMF extensions for MR number handling.
.sp
This option is an undocumented
.B \s-1SUN\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs 
implementations.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRChanging the annotated commentary

.LP
The following command:
.sp

.LP
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcdc -r1.6 -y"corrected commentary" s.program.c\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
produces the following annotated commentary for delta 1.6 in \fBs.program.c\fR:
.sp

.LP
.in +2
.nf
D 1.6 88/07/05 23:21:07 username 9 0 00001/00000/00000
MRs:
COMMENTS:
corrected commentary
*** CHANGED *** 88/07/07 14:09:41 username
performance enhancements in main()
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR cdc (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .
.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR cdc (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.TP 5
.B 0
Successful completion.
.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred.

.SH FILES

.sp
.ne 2
.TP 12
.BI s. file
.B SCCS
history file, see
.BR sccsfile (4).

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI x. file
temporary copy of the
.BR s. file;
renamed to the
.BR s. file
after completion

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.BI z. file
temporary lock file contains the binary process id in host byte order
followed by the host name

.SH ATTRIBUTES

.LP
See 
\fBattributes\fR(5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.LP

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-comb (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs-unget (1),
.BR sccs-val (1),
.BR sccscvt (1),
.BR sccslog (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR changeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Use the SCCS
.B help
command for explanations (see 
.BR sccs-help (1)).

.SH AUTHORS
The
.B SCCS
suite was origininally written by Marc J. Rochkind at Bell Labs in 1972.
Release 4.0 of
.BR SCCS ,
introducing new versions of the programs
.BR admin (1),
.BR get (1),
.BR prt (1),
and
.BR delta (1)
was published on February 18, 1977; it introduced the new text based
.B SCCS\ v4
history file format (previous
.B SCCS
releases used a binary history file format).
The
.B SCCS
suite
was later maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems.
Since 2006, the
.B SCCS
suite is maintained by J\*org Schilling.
