'\" te
.\" @(#)sccs-sccsdiff.1	1.23 20/08/05 Copyright 2007-2020 J. Schilling
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may use this file only in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH sccs-sccsdiff 1 "2020/08/05" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sccs-sccsdiff, sccsdiff \- compare two versions of an SCCS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.B "/usr/ccs/bin/sccsdiff \c
.RB [ -p "] \c
.BI -r "sid \c
.BI -r "sid \c
.RI [ diff-options "]
.br
.RB "    [" -N\c
.IR bulk-spec "] \c
.I s.filename
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.LP
.B sccsdiff
compares two versions of an
.B SCCS
file and displays the differences between the two versions. Any number of
.B SCCS
files may be specified. The options specified apply to all named
.BR s. files.

.SH OPTIONS

.LP
The following options are supported:

.br
.ne 3
.TP 13
.B -p
Pipe output for each file through 
.BR pr (1).

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -r sid
Specify a version corresponding to the indicated
.B SCCS
delta
.B ID
(SID) for comparison.  Versions are passed to 
.BR diff (1)
in the order given.

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.I diff-options
Pass options to 
.BR diff (1),
including:
.BR \-b ,
.BR \-c ,
.BR \-e ,
.BR \-f ,
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-u ,
.B \-C
.IR number ,
.B \-U
.IR number ,
and
.B \-D
.IR string .

.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.BI -N bulk-spec
Processes a bulk of SCCS history files.
This option allows one to do an efficient mass processing of SCCS history files.
.sp
The
.I bulk-spec
parameter is composed from an optional list of
.B flag
parameters followed by an optional
.B path
specifier.
.sp
The following flag types are supported:
.RS
.TP 10
.B none
.LP
.ne 4
The following path specifier types are supported:
.TP 10
.B \-N
The file name parameters to the
.B sccsdiff
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.B s.
to the last path name component.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.B \-Ns.
The file name parameters to the
.B sccsdiff
command are
.I s.filename
files.
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.B s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
Both,
.I s.filename
and the g-file are in the same directory.
.TP
.BI \-N dir
The file name parameters to the
.B sccsdiff
command are not
.I s.filename
files but the names of the g-files.
The
.I s.filename
names are put into directory
.IR dir ,
the names are automatically derived from the g-file names by prepending
.IB dir /s.
to the last path name component.
.TP
.BI \-N dir /s.
The file name parameters to the
.B sccsdiff
command are
.I s.filename
files in directory
.IR dir .
The the g-files names are automatically derived by removing
.IB dir /s.
from the beginning of last path name component of the
.IR s.filename.
.PP
A typical value for
.I dir
is
.BR SCCS .
.PP
In order to overcome the limited number of
.BR exec (2)
arguments, it is recommended to use
.RB ` \(mi \&'
as the file name parameter for
.BR sccsdiff (1)
and to send a list of path names to
.BR stdin .
.PP
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.
.RE

.br
.ne 3
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-V
.TP
.B \-version
.TP
.B \-\-version
.PD
Prints the
.B sccsdiff
version number string and exists.
.sp
This option is a
.B \s-1SCHILY\s+1
extension that does not exist in historic
.B sccs
implementations.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
See
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR sccsdiff (1):
.BR LANG ,
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LC_COLLATE ,
.BR LC_CTYPE ,
.BR LC_MESSAGES ,
and
.BR NLSPATH .

.br
.ne 4
.TP
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
If set,
.BR sccsdiff (1)
will not automatically call
.BR help (1)
with the SCCS error code in order to print a more helpful
error message. Scripts that depend on the exact error messages
of SCCS commands should set the environment variable
.B SCCS_NO_HELP
and set
.BR LC_ALL=C .

.SH FILES

.br
.ne 3
.TP 15n
.B /tmp/get?????
temporary files

.SH ATTRIBUTES

.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:

.LP

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.nh
.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-add (1),
.BR sccs\-admin (1),
.BR sccs\-branch (1),
.BR sccs\-cdc (1),
.BR sccs\-check (1),
.BR sccs\-clean (1),
.BR sccs\-comb (1),
.BR sccs\-commit (1),
.BR sccs\-create (1),
.BR sccs\-cvt (1),
.BR sccs\-deledit (1),
.BR sccs\-delget (1),
.BR sccs\-delta (1),
.BR sccs\-diffs (1),
.BR sccs\-edit (1),
.BR sccs\-editor (1),
.BR sccs\-enter (1),
.BR sccs\-fix (1),
.BR sccs\-get (1),
.BR sccs\-help (1),
.BR sccs\-histfile (1),
.BR sccs\-info (1),
.BR sccs\-init (1),
.BR sccs\-istext (1),
.BR sccs\-ldiffs (1),
.BR sccs\-log (1),
.BR sccs\-print (1),
.BR sccs\-prs (1),
.BR sccs\-prt (1),
.BR sccs\-rcs2sccs (1),
.BR sccs\-remove (1),
.BR sccs\-rename (1),
.BR sccs\-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs\-root (1),
.BR sccs\-sact (1),
.BR sccs\-status (1),
.BR sccs\-tell (1),
.BR sccs\-unedit (1),
.BR sccs\-unget (1),
.BR sccs\-val (1),
.BR bdiff (1), 
.BR diff (1), 
.BR what (1),
.BR sccschangeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).
.hy 14

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.br
.ne 3
.TP 27n
.IB filename ": No differences
If the two versions are the same.
.sp

.LP
Use the SCCS
.B help
command for explanations of other messages. See 
.BR sccs-help (1).

.SH AUTHORS
The
.B SCCS
suite was originally written by Marc J. Rochkind at Bell Labs in 1972.
Release 4.0 of
.BR SCCS ,
introducing new versions of the programs
.BR admin (1),
.BR get (1),
.BR prt (1),
and
.BR delta (1)
was published on February 18, 1977; it introduced the new text based
.B SCCS\ v4
history file format (previous
.B SCCS
releases used a binary history file format).
The
.B SCCS
suite
was later maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems.
Since 2006, the
.B SCCS
suite is maintained by J\*org Schilling.

.br
.ne 7
.SH "SOURCE DOWNLOAD"
A frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is included in the
.B schilytools
project and may be retrieved from the
.B schilytools
project at Sourceforge at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/
.LP
The download directory is:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/schilytools/files/
.LP
Check for the
.B schily\-*.tar.bz2
archives.
.LP
Less frequently updated source code for the
.B SCCS
suite is at:
.LP
.B
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/sccs/files/
.LP
Separate project information for the
.B SCCS
project may be retrieved from:
.LP
.B
    http://sccs.sf.net
.br
