'\" te
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cddl1.txt
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 2007-2014 J. Schilling
.if t .ds a \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'a
.if t .ds o \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.45n'o
.if t .ds u \v'-0.55m'\h'0.00n'\z.\h'0.40n'\z.\v'0.55m'\h'-0.40n'u
.if t .ds A \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'A
.if t .ds O \v'-0.77m'\h'0.25n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.70n'O
.if t .ds U \v'-0.77m'\h'0.30n'\z.\h'0.45n'\z.\v'0.77m'\h'-0.75n'U
.if t .ds s \\(*b
.if t .ds S SS
.if n .ds a ae
.if n .ds o oe
.if n .ds u ue
.if n .ds s sz
.TH what 1 "2014/09/15" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
what \- extract SCCS version information from a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
.B what \c
.RB [ -s "] \c
.IR filename...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION

.LP
The
.B what
utility searches each
.I filename
for occurrences of the pattern
.B @(#)
that the
.B SCCS get
command (see 
.BR sccs-get (1))
substitutes for the
.B %\&Z%
ID keyword, and prints what follows up to a \fB"\fR,
.BR > ,
.BR NEWLINE ,
.BR \e ,
or
.B NULL
character.
.sp

.SH OPTIONS

.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.TP
.B -s
Stops after the first occurrence of the pattern.

.sp
.ne 3
.TP
.B \-V
Prints the
.B what
version number string and exists.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.B Example 1
Extracting SCCS version information

.LP
If a C program in file
.B program.c
contains
.sp

.LP
.in +2
.nf
char sccsid[\|] = "\|@(#)identification information\|";
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
and
.B program.c
is compiled to yield
.B program.o
and
.BR a.out ,
the command:
.sp

.LP
.in +2
.nf
example% \c
.B what program.c program.o a.out
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
produces:
.sp

.br
.ne 2
.TP 12n
.BR program.c :
identification information

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BR program.o :
identification information

.br
.ne 2
.TP
.BR a.out :
identification information

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.LP
See 
.BR environ (5)
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.BR what :
LANG, LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, LC_MESSAGES, and NLSPATH.
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.br
.ne 2
.TP
.B 0
Any matches were found.
.br
.ne 2
.TP
.B 1
No matches found.

.SH ATTRIBUTES

.LP
See 
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.LP

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
AvailabilitySUNWsprot
_
Interface StabilityStandard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO

.LP
.BR sccs (1),
.BR sccs-admin (1),
.BR sccs-cdc (1),
.BR sccs-comb (1),
.BR sccs-delta (1),
.BR sccs-get (1),
.BR sccs-help (1),
.BR sccs-prs (1),
.BR sccs-prt (1),
.BR sccs-rmdel (1),
.BR sccs-sact (1),
.BR sccs-sccsdiff (1),
.BR sccs-unget (1),
.BR sccs-val (1),
.BR sccscvt (1),
.BR sccslog (1),
.BR changeset (4),
.BR sccsfile (4),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR environ (5),
.BR standards (5).
.sp

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

.LP
Use the SCCS
.B help
command for explanations (see 
.BR sccs-help (1)).
.sp

.SH BUGS

.LP
There is a remote possibility that a spurious occurrence of the
.RB ` @(#) '
pattern could be found by
.BR what .

.SH AUTHORS
The
.B SCCS
suite was origininally written by Marc J. Rochkind at Bell Labs in 1972.
Release 4.0 of
.BR SCCS ,
introducing new versions of the programs
.BR admin (1),
.BR get (1),
.BR prt (1),
and
.BR delta (1)
was published on February 18, 1977; it introduced the new text based
.B SCCS\ v4
history file format (previous
.B SCCS
releases used a binary history file format).
The
.B SCCS
suite
was later maintained by various people at AT&T and Sun Microsystems.
Since 2006, the
.B SCCS
suite is maintained by J\*org Schilling.

